 Fifteen years ago, the The Belkan Federation began a war of conquest, invading nearby territories. To stop them, a military alliance was set up between the Osean Federation and the Union of Yuktobanian Republics. These two great powers drove the Belkans back but their counter-invasion was cut short when the Belkans detonated 6 nuclear warheads on their own soil, preventing the alliance from advancing on them. This ended the great war and a time of peace has reigned. The Osean and Yuktobanian nations have remained allies. On the small remote, "Sand Island", off the western coast of Osea, a skilled veteran of the war named Captain Bartlett (callsign: "Heartbreaker") trains new pilots as the 108th Tactical Fighter Squadron, designated "Wardog" in the Osean Air Defense Force (OADF). During a routine training operation, unidentified aircraft appear on the radar and proceed to shoot down many of the squadron's not fully trained pilots. The squadron is left with few survivors, and the incident covered up while the military tries to figure out what's going on. Soon after, the nation of Yuktobania declares war on Osea, thus beginning a new conflict.  Ace Combat 5: The Unsung War is a first person air combat and flight simulator. Like other Ace Combat games, each mission is determined by a level briefing and objectives. There are 32 missions in the main campaign mode, while an additional "arcade" mode puts the  player in the role of Mobius One (from Ace Combat 04: Shattered Skies) as he faces endless waves of enemy attacks. Regardless of the mode chosen, once in the air the player will have control over speed, direction, altitude, gun cannon, missiles and special weapon of their aircraft. A new feature from previous Ace Combat games, is the concept of Wingmen and being able to issue simple orders to them in the air. This allows the player to better coordinated group attacks as well as giving each wingman a personality of their own. Additionally, the player as squadron leader will be asked to make decisions ("Yes/No") while flying in the air. Between missions, the story is progressed through a series of cutscenes.  Successful destruction of enemy targets earns the player money, which can be used to purchase new aircraft. Unlike Ace Combat 04: Shattered Skies special weapons no longer need to be purchased, however airplanes in the inventory apply to the entire squadron so if the player wishes a full wing of F-16s, they must have enough for everyone to fly.   Ace Combat 5, though situated in a fictional world highlights real-world models of aircraft including the F-14 Tomcat, Su-27 Flanker, F-16, A-6 Intruder, A-10 Thunderbolt, F-15, F/A-18, Tornado, and many more.
