 Following the events of Legacy of Kain: Blood Omen, over 200 years the vampire Kain has assembled an army of vampires to take over the world of the humans. Fighting across Nosgoth, goal is to make his way to the great city of Meridian and take control of this stronghold. However upon reaching the gates of the city, the army is challenged by the Serafan Order, an organized force of vampire hunters and it's leader, the magical Serafan lord. Kain engages the Serafan Lord in single combat, and is struck down and defeated, Kain's sword, the Soul Reaver, is claimed by his enemy. Unconscious for 200 years, Kain awakes under the care of the vampire Umah to a world he barely recognizes. Having lost it's army, the vampires have been hunted down by the Serafan and only a few remain. The city of Meridian is ruled under martial law by the Serafan Order and demands great things of it's citizens. Strange "Glyph magic" is used to power machines and fuel industry, but at the same time is deadly to vampires and used as wards throughout the city. Kain swears vengeance on the opponent who defeated him and seeks to reclaim his place as ruler of the vampires.  The Legacy of Kain: Blood Omen 2 is a 3rd person adventure game, more similar in perspective to Soul Reaver than the first Blood Omen game. The player controls from behind Kain's shoulder and can move him in different directions, attack, jump, use "dark gifts" and grab on to ledges. Kain's life energy steadily depletes and must be replenished constantly by drinking blood. Blood is found by consuming any living creature nearby, often requiring defeating an enemy through combat first. As Kain consumes blood, his meter is filled up. Once full, Kain gains additional health. Kain also learns new dark gifts throughout the game, by defeating boss creatures. Some gifts include: the ability to blend into mist, fire projectiles, use projectile telekinesis or make a great horizontal leap. Many of these abilities can be used to perform "stealth kills" which will instantly defeat a foe. Kain will fight using his bare hands, or by picking up daggers, swords, axes and other weapons. These weapons all attack differently, eventually breaking, and can also be thrown at enemies from afar.  The Serafan use Glyph magic, partially because it is deadly to vampires. Kain will often encounter areas where he is barred from progress because of Glyph barriers and must find a way around them. Additionally, glyphs function similar to electricity in that they power machines and switches. Many of the puzzles featured in Blood Omen 2 involve needing to create a glyph "circuit" in order to deliver power to a specific point. Glyph energy glows as it travels down it's connection, allowing the player to see exactly where the energy spark is.
