This installment of the Conflict series occurs in many diverse regions of the World: in Conflict: Global Terror, Red Team spends the game fighting international terrorism.  Rather than gung-ho desert tank warfare, or tense jungle ambush fighting, the game explores many non-army locations such as gas factories, cocaine production facilities and hotels.  The combat is often up close and very personal, although most levels seem to mix up the killzone areas giving a wide variety that support combat over many varying ranges. The Missions vary quite a bit too. Some are frenetic - fast paced where the team are fighting for their lives, others can be played at a much slower pace if desired. The level design really adds to counter-terrorism gameplay. The Team are often busting seiges using C4 to blow holes in walls and smoke grenades to flush the bad guys out.  The gadgets are useful and are frequently found to be helpful: thermal goggles let the player see through smoke, and Bradley's laser designator can mark key targets for gunship air strike. Claymore mines allow the team to protect their rear or even set up ambushes.  The game is very flexible - adopting all playing styles. Players are free to run and gun, or play as a super-stealthy special forces team. Players can play as one character leading the team, or switch around between characters as they see fit. Ordering the team about and switching characters is quick and simple. It is even possible to give each member advanced orders - "On my signal, Connors runs to the window, Bradley opens the door and Jones throws a grenade through the window ". Ready....... GO!!! Conflict: Global Terror allows this kind of planning if the player wants to play that way. The co-op allows multiple players to take control of Red Team.  There are 4 difficulty modes and a skill learning curve for beginners an veterans alike. There are over 30 weapons with individual stats and behaviours. Each has their own distinct advantages and disadvantages - pistols are sometimes a better choice than a light machine gun for example, so the game aims to be more flexible to different playing styles.  The story unfolds throughout the missions and also in the cutscenes in between missions. The team really is made up of 4 distinct characters, with their own personal histories, lives and personalities.
