 .hack//Mutation is the second in a four part game series. It's a single player adventure / rpg that "simulates" an MMORPG (EverQuest, Ultima On-line) that has you playing the character Kite. You can get member addresses of other character and attempt to call them to in game to see if they are on-line to join you in a quest. Like standard MMORPG games, it has a LOT of side quests, lots of weapons and armor, a trading system for equipment among other character and the ability to move between different servers. You also have message boards and e-mail to communicate with other "players". This version improves the original by better AI control of other character's, additional items, more characters, access to more servers / areas, and a lot more.  You can play this game without beating the first one or import your save game data and retain everything for a seamless transition in to outbreak. Once you beat the game, you can still continue to play and level up your character and your character can transfer to the third game .hack//Outbreak (Aug 2003).   The story: It continues after the events of the first game (See .hack//Infection). You friend is still in a Coma and you still haven't found out why. The story deepens as the hacker Helba and the game administrators both start getting involved with you (the admins are not happy with you but can "use" your help to investigate what's going on). The question on what happened to Aura at the end of the first game still gets deeper and new elements about how beta version of “The World” originally called "Fragments" and the plot that it had, and may still be in “The World”.  .hack//Mutation is part of Ban Dai's dot hack project that first starts with the Anime DVD series (.hack//Sign). The game series takes place after the events of the "Key of Twilight" and focus's on the "Book of Twilight". Each game in the series has a DVD episode of the .hack//Liminality anime series that show the events going on in the real world around the same time as the game.
