Eye Toy: Kinetic Combat is an exceptional interactive fitness product that adds a new dimension to home fitness. EyeToy: Kinetic redefined the home fitness market by transforming PlayStation 2 into an interactive fitness system bringing personal fitness trainers and workout tools into the home. To ensure an unparalleled home fitness experience, the team at London Studio have applied their knowledge and skills gained from EyeToy: Kinetic to produce an even more sophisticated and refined fitness product.  Fusing the martial arts teaching of Hung Gar Kung Fu with an holistic fitness programme, Kinetic Combat is set to revolutionise the martial arts inspired home fitness market delivering players their own personal Kung Fu trainer and sparring partners for a fully personalised one-on-one training session.  To achieve unprecedented levels of interaction, Kinetic Combat uses cutting edge Motion Matching Technology. This sophisticated technology means it's able to track the player's moves on screen with supreme precision. It can tell if a move is being performed correctly and gives personalised real-time feedback that is both encouraging and constructive.  Over 200 separate Hung Gar Kung Fu moves have been motion captured using a leading martial arts expert and players need to stay within the instructors outline on screen to complete exercises and learn new techniques.  As players' journey through the four martial arts inspired zones they will face a number of challenges to test their new skills. In addition to a series of games, players need to bring all the moves together in an end of zone sparring match. In this 'versus' battle players will face a virtual opponent that they need to defeat to progress to the next zone.  To provide a structured training schedule, Kinetic Combat has a Personal Trainer Mode that takes players through a 16 week programme. This programme ensures players benefit from an holistic approach that targets all the body's muscle groups whilst giving an comprehensive aerobic and anaerobic workout and thorough grounding in Hung Gar Kung Fu.  The Freestyle Mode lets players build their own workout programme under the watchful eye of the three personal trainers whereas the Quick Play Mode lets players choose a workout at random. This mode also contains a number of one-off games that can be played competitively against friends and family.  Whatever way you train with Kinetic Combat you're guaranteed a serious hard hitting and enjoyable home workout. 
