The 2008 edition of the long-running EA FIFA football franchise improves upon the gameplay and the features of the previous installments. It is the first game in the series to appear on the Wii and the PS3. Statistically, it includes 620 licensed teams, 30 national leagues (3 more than in FIFA Soccer 07), with the addition of the Hyundai A-League (Australia), Czech Gambrinus Liga (Czech Republic) and FAI Premier Division (Ireland). As usual, the leagues have been updated with new teams and prominent football countries (England, France, Germany, Italy and Spain) have multiple divisions. There are also 23 clubs from around the world not featured in specific leagues.  Gameplay changes include a revised shooting simulation, where factors such as position, defence, speed, bounce and direction weigh in. This is a continuation of the dynamic shooting meter from the previous version, where the position and a shot power meter make for powerful distance shots. There is also more attention to through-balls, more fluent animations and skill moves, revamped crowd, cheering and stadium animations, and a redesigned tackle system. Next to the known modes, "Be A Pro" is introduced where players take control of a single, fixed player on the field. It is not a career mode, but mainly an alternative way to play the games. Online multiplayer options allow players to form a team of independently controlled players, with 10 human-controlled players at the same time in a single match. The camera is changed for this mode, to constantly keep the specific player, but also the action in focus.  FIFA Soccer 08 contains licensed music tracks from all around the world. Brazilian player Ronaldinho is the poster boy for this version, only replaced with prominent national players for specific localized versions, especially for the European countries.  The PS3 and Xbox 360 versions include online interactive leagues, with full national leagues against other players on EA servers. The game also comes with the tools to set up independent multiplayer games and organize tournaments.  The Wii version comes with the Footii Party mode, hosted by a Mii avatar of superstar Ronaldinho. Using the players' Mii characters there are mini-games of Table Football and Shoot Off. Players can also unlock Ronaldinho to go head-to-head in a skill contest. The controls are completely different from the other versions, dubbed FreeMotion. Through 30 tutorials at the Football Academy, players learn to dribble, shoot, pass and perform tricks with a flick of the wrist. The same depth is offered as in the other versions, with crosses, through passes and distance shots.
