Grand Theft Auto: Vice City offers the same go-anywhere style of play as its violent, M-rated predecessor but in a new setting based on Miami.   The player takes the role of Tommy Vercetti (voiced by Ray Liotta), a gangster who just got off a fifteen year prison sentence for not squealing on his friends.  Because he didn't rat out his "family", Tommy's sent to work with Sonny Forelli, his old boss. Sonny gives him an easy drug job, but everything goes wrong, and Tommy loses everything.  Upon returning to Sonny, he gets mad and wants his money back. Unfortunately, everybody in Vice City, from gangsters and Cubans to bikers and politicians are in his way, and it's up to Tommy to clear a path.  Grand Theft Auto: Vice City takes everything from Grand Theft Auto III and builds upon it.  There are new cars in the game, reminiscent of cars from the 80s. Some cars are earlier models of the vehicles from GTA III. New to this game is the ability to drive motorcycles. Tommy can drive a variety of two-wheeled vehicles, from huge Harley-esque bikes to dirt bikes to your standard motorcycle. Flying is also a bigger part of the game, as the player can fly small planes and helicopters, traveling from area to area, landing on helipads on top of towering skyscrapers.  Weapons are, more or less, the same as in GTA III, but the addition of melee weapons spices combat up a little.  Tommy can use riot batons, crowbars, and a few others.  Grand Theft Auto: Vice City uses celebrity voice talent.  The main character is voiced by Ray Liotta of Goodfellas, and the supporting cast is voiced by Dennis Hopper (Speed), Gary Busey (Slapshot 2), William Fitcher, Danny Trejo, Luis Guzman (Traffic), and Jenna Jameson (ex porn star).  To effectively capture the mood of the 1980s, the soundtrack has been altered to fit the time period. Players will listen to an estimated nine hours of music (nearly three times the amount featured Grand Theft Auto III) across 10 radio stations. The eclectic mix features such noteworthy titles as I Ran by Flock of Seagulls, The Message by Grandmaster Flash, You've Got Another Thing Coming by Judas Priest, and Out of Touch by Hall 
