 The Wild Wild West meets Grand Theft Auto in this free-roaming action game. Set in 1870, you are Colton White, a young gunslinger whose father is killed by an Indian tribe led by Reverend Reed. Just before passing away, your father hands you a token and reveals you are not his son. Sworn to avenge his death, you pursue the killers and unravel the secrets surrounding the item. Although you are on your own, temporary alliances can be formed with townspeople, Apaches and posse members, but watch your back as they can turn against you.  The main storyline, written by Hollywood screenwriter Randall Jahnson (The Mask of Zorro, 1998,) is linear.  You will have to fight duels, defend towns against bandits, help build railway tracks, intervene in various conflicts and kill heavily-armed bossed.  There are also many side missions or alternative ways to earn money. You can play poker in the casino, help out farmers with their livestock, assist the local sheriff or deliver items with the pony express. Other possibilities include bounty hunting, regular hunting for rare animals, mining for gold and various rescue missions.   The RPG elements involve acquiring and improving skills, such as QuickDraw (shown in Bullet Time,) Zoom Firing, Melee Combat, improved accuracy, the ability to throw axes and strategically equipping and upgrading different weapons.  There are hand weapons (knives, tomahawks, bayonets), archery arms, explosive throwable items and regular guns, such as sharpshooter rifles, colts and winchesters. Some are earned during the missions, others can be bought and sold for cash in the towns.  The GTA reference is reflected in the main means of transportation: horses. There are different animals to find with extensive movement options. Go on wild chases, spurt, gallop, do skid attacks, or trample your enemies. Give them some rest from time to time, or you will wear them down to death. In the melee combat, you can do roll maneuvers, use objects to provide cover, grab your opponents and even scalp them. You are free to steer away from the main storyline and explore the giant landscape, with towns, deserts, mountains, wilderness and caves.
