 In High Rollers Casino, you navigate a Las Vegas style casino environment with a male or female character you create from pre-selected options (head, hair, etc.), or you may create a character with the mix and match generator. Along with the character parts, the character's voice is also pre-set. Creating a character is required to play, and only one player may play at a time. Once a character is generated, you may enter the casino, which you navigate by walking around, and is viewed from a third person perspective of your character.  Table games (where you play against a dealer) include Blackjack (including Blackjack, Spanish 21, Double Exposure, and Triple-7), Caribbean Stud Poker, Craps, Let It Ride, Mini Baccarat, Pai Gow Poker, Roulette, Sic-Bo (similar to Roulette, except with three dice in a cage), and Three Card Poker. Machine games include Slots, Video Keno, Video Poker and Video Slots. Poker games include 5 Card Draw, 7 Card Stud, Omaha, Omaha 8's or Better, Razz, and Texas Hold 'Em. You may play the table and machine games by going directly to them to start, but you must go to the Poker Manager to play the poker games.  In addition to the Poker Manager, other features available in the casino include the Bartender, who is responsible for explaining the rules for the games, and providing tutorials for playing them. The Cashier will help you when you are out of money by providing markers, or letting you sell prizes won in tournaments. The Elevator lets you access your game play statistics, clothing options, prizes, and VIP status, and the Casino Manager provides information about prizes, handles VIP access, and allows you to enter tournaments. Competing in tournaments requires an entry fee of differing amounts, but if won, you gain all of the other player's entry fees. If you win consecutive tournaments, you win Tournament Bonus prizes which may be cashed in at the Cashier.  As your bankroll increases, you gain VIP status and corresponding VIP cards (Silver, Gold, and Platinum) which increase your ranking and unlocks an additional costume for your character. Gaining the High Rollers card just gives you the High Roller Ranking. These are collected at the Casino Manager's booth. You may access the menu at any time to go directly to a game, change system settings like music and sound volume, game settings and clearing game statistics, help to get detailed game rules and betting options, and to save and load your game.
