 Karaoke Revolution allows PlayStation 2 gamers to show off their singing skills and get real-time feedback on their performances!!  It's like Dance Dance Revolution, but with singing instead of dancing.    Players sing using the Logitech PS2 Headset (or other approved Playstation 2 USB microphone devices).  The game rates the player's performance based on your vocal pitch and timing.  A visual indicator shows the player's current pitch in real-time and also the pitch of vocals of the original song.  If the original notes of the song are too high for the player's vocal range, the game allows the player to sing at higher or lower octaves to hit the correct notes.    If the player sings well, the crowd gets into the performance by clapping, cheering and dancing.  If the performance is bad, the audience becomes bored and the user can get booed off the stage.  Single Player Game Modes include:   - Arcade Mode: where users sing 3-5 songs are try to score big points  - Showtime Mode: Players start at a Living Room Party and work to a huge concert at the Enormobowl.  Additional venues include: a Subway Station, The Pit Stop, a County Fair, the Superstar TV show, Club Avalanche, and a Royal Hall.  - Karaoke Mode: Players can enjoy singing the song without having to worry about getting rated or scored.  Multi-player Game Mode include:  Arcade Mode - two to eight players performs songs and try to be the player with the highest score at the end of each round.  The player who wins the most rounds is the winner.  Karaoke Competition - three to eight players compete against each other.  The main twist of this mode is that each player rates the performance of the other players to determine the winner of the Karaoke competition.  Over 35 songs from the 70's, 80's, 90's, and current hits including (as made famous by): Addicted (Simple Plan), All You Wanted (Michelle Branch), Are You Happy Now? (Michelle Branch), Believe (Cher), Billie Jean (Michael Jackson), Bizarre Love Triangle (New Order), Broken Wings (Mr. Mister), Celebration (Kool and the Gang), Chain of Fools (Aretha Franklin), Complicated (Avril Lavigne), Crawling in the Dark (Hoobastank), Don't Know Why (Norah Jones), Every Morning (Sugar Ray), Everything You Want (Vertical Horizon), Girls Just Want to Have Fun (Cyndi Lauper), Hey Jealousy (The Gin Blossoms), Hit Me With Your Best Shot (Pat Benatar), How You Remind Me (Nickelback), I'm Coming Out (Diana Ross), It's The End of the World As We Know It (REM), Kiss Me (Sixpence None the Richer), Ladies' Night (Kool and the Gang), Like a Virgin (Madonna), One Week (Barenaked Ladies), Red Red Wine (UB40), Save Tonite (Eagle Eye Cherry), Science Genius Girl (Freezepop), She Talks to Angels (Black Crowes), Smooth Criminal (Michael Jackson/Alien Ant Farm), Son of a Preacher Man (Dusty Springfield), The Power of Love (Huey Lewis and the News), Waiting for Tonight (Jennifer Lopez), When a Man Loves a Woman (Michael Bolton), Wind Beneath My Wings (Bette Midler), You Really Got Me (Van Halen), You're the One That I Want (Less Than Jake)  Players can unlock extra characters, additional outfits, more songs, and some GREAT behind the scenes videos!!  The game includes an option for Expansion Discs - which means players will be able to Karaoke to additional songs in the future.
