Do you like to surf? Have you ever imagined surfing at different remote locations around the world? Well, Kelly Slater takes you around the world on his boat to surf some of the more famous beaches. With a control scheme similar to all the other Activision O2 brand games, it's easy to jump into the game and surf.   PS2, XB, and GC description, further below is the GBA description.  Game Play Modes: Infinite Time - With no clock, no objectives, and nobody around, this gives you the best opportunity to just enjoy the surf.   High Score - With 3 minutes, how high of a score can you get?  Icon Challenge - See how many icons you can collect and how high of a score you can get before time runs out.  Career Mode - Select a surfer and journey around the world to surf the best waves on the best beaches. As you progress you will unlock new beaches, new surf boards, and new tricks which will be usable in all the other modes of play.  Multiplayer Modes: Push - Two players surf simultaneously in an attempt to "push" the split screen towards their opponent's half of the screen. As you score points the screen gets pushed more. The winner is decided once one player is pushed from the screen.  Head to Head - Similar to Push but the screen is stationary and the winner is the person with the highest points when the time runs out.  Time Attack - Players take turns to achieve the most points possible. The more points you get the less time is alloted to your opponent.  The Pros in the game: Kelly Slater, Lisa Andersen, Tom Carroll, Tom Curren, Nathan Fletcher, Donavon Frankenreiter, Bruce Irons, Rob Machado, Kalani Robb, and some other secret characters.  The beaches in the game: Sebastian, Trestles, Mavericks, Antarctica, Jaws, Pipeline, Teahupoo, Bells, Curren's Point, Kirra, G-Land, J-Bay, Mundaka, Cortez Bank, and perhaps some other tucked-away hide-aways.  The PS2 version of the game also includes a playable demo of Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4  GBA description  Surf Modes: Championship - Compete against 8 other surfers. You progress by surfing in 12 stages, 3 heats per stage. Your surf score is tallied from each heat and the top 3 surfers of the stage get to move on.  Challenge - Pick a surfer and do challenges around the world.  Drop In - Instant action surfing - go and just surf.  Multiplayer - With a Link Cable and another copy of the game you and a friend can link up to compete against each other.  The Pros are the same as above.  The beaches in the game: Sebastian, Trestles, Mavericks, Waimea Bay, Jaws, Pipeline, Teahupoo, Bells, Curren's Point, Kirra, G-Land, J-Bay, Mundaka, Cortez Bank, and perhaps some other tucked-away hide-aways.
