First game of new millennium to be officially licensed by Group Lotus Plc. A British company famous for their racing and sports cars notable appearances in earlier games include James Bond: The Spy Who Loved Me starring Roger Moore and Lotus: The Ultimate Challenge.  Features 42 cars spanning the company’s history covering: Formula One era (1962 Type 25, 1978 Type 79T to 2001 Formula Lotus), Classic era (1957 Seven S1 to 1986 Excel SE) to modern sports cars (1964 Competition Elan, 1980 E-spirit S2 to new Elise), and two concept cars designed by Lotus Engineers. Each virtual Formula One car is based on actual Team Lotus accomplishments, and other models were thoroughly tried by actual Lotus test drivers. A brief corporate history is also provided in the game.  “Challenge” mode begins on ‘Lotus test track’ beat best lap time to qualify, then select a character from fictional Lotus Challenge team in story based contest a mixture of World Series Championship racing circuits, stunt driving, and one-on-one races. Each completed segment is ‘unlocked’. “Collection” mode gives players’ access to every car and track ‘unlocked’. “Championship” mode involves seven different championship classes of Classic cars to Super cars, only two of these can be used, as others must be ‘unlocked’ to play. “Single” mode lets you play a quick game of up to 15 laps of any event, challenges, stunts, and races that is ‘unlocked’.  Twenty circuits across various locations from city, speedway to custom circuits: Trafalgar Square or Buckingham Palace in London, Arizona Yuma County Speedway, Florida Jupiter Beach to Tokyo Bay Tunnel in either day or night with set weather conditions like sunny, fog, rain or snow. Circuits range from flat terrain, navigating sharp hairpins to steep hill climbs. Diversions include nine special events, four stunt sequences and nine different challenges – stunts on Hollywood movie set or advertisements to car football; tasks like fleeing the paparazzi in approaching traffic to transporting against time a pregnant woman to hospital before delivery. Official Lotus test drivers offer advice on undertaking individual courses.  A variety of options are available from transmission controls, driving aids, and opponent skill to degree of vehicle damage ranging in minimum windows or headlights breakage to total bodywork and engine destruction from minor or major indentation, scraping to separable tires.    In game visuals provide information on current ranking in comparison to other drivers, laps completed and remaining, overall circuit map, transmission setting, relevant times for present to entire race time, Speedo and revs counter, three tags for anti-lock braking system, traction control and assisted steering.  Selected multi-player games have access to hidden cars and circuits that can be ‘unlocked’ by finishing agreed single or championship race.
