In Mafia, you play as Tommy Angelo, a cabbie in the 1930's prohibition America, who is suddenly thrust into the mafia.  The game begins with a cutscene.  All of a sudden, two guys jump into your cab, and tell you to lose the people behind you, who seem to be shooting at you.  After going through the city, and finally losing the tail, you are instructed to drive to a bar.  The two guy's get out, go inside, and bring out a nice "payment" for you, and offer you a job.  The next day, while taking a coffee break, your car is smashed by two rival gangsters.  After this, you decide it would be wise to join the two guy's you picked up last night, and this is where the game begins.  You are now a soldier in the Salieri family.  You begin the game as a lowly soldier, doing routine jobs.  The more you do, the better you do, the better (and more dangerous) jobs will become available to you.  There are many people you will encounter throughout the game, such as Sam and Paulie, your partners, Frank, the accountant, Luigi, the bartender, Ralph, the mechanic, Vincenzo, the weapons guy, and Lucas Bertone, the out of family mechanic.  You will have the chance to drive over 60 vehicles that are reminiscent of the 1930's period.  Each car handles differently, with various degrees of damage.  You can smash windows, destroy bumpers, lights, and mirrors, dent the car, shoot out the tires, or shoot the tires so much they just fall off.  With these vehicles, you will drive through twelve square miles of the city, visiting areas such as Central Island, Chinatown, and the Downtown district.  Complementing the vehicles is a wide array of weapons, such as pistols, tommy guns, shotguns, explosives, baseball bats and crowbars.  While driving a car, you can perform drive-by's by sticking your hand out the window and firing.  To add to the realism, if your gas tank gets punctured, gas will slowly leak out until your car totally empties.  Luckily, there are gas stations scattered throughout the city, allowing you to refuel.  Trying to impede you is the police force.  They will act on anything suspicious.  If they see you carrying a weapon, they will attempt to arrest you.  Going over the speed limit, running red lights, crashing into buildings/cars/objects/etc. will result in fines.
