 The final game in the trilogy of Solid Snake's origins, MGS3: Subsistence delves deeper into the story behind MGS3: Snake Eater.  Packing almost 3 times as many features as the original MGS3, Subsistence adds more depth and persona to the original MGS3 by adding more tweaks and content to the gameplay.  In MGS3: Snake Eater is set in Cold War Russia, as tensions are rising between America and the USSR.  Naked Snake, a highly trained stealth operative from the US, is dropped in Russia on a top secret mission to rescue a nuclear scientist, Sokolov, from the hands of the Russians.  But soon things turn ugly.  The rescue mission is botched, and a weapon of mass destruction, codenamed the Shagohod, is stolen from the Russians by terrorists.  Not only this, but a nuclear missile is launched on to one of Russia's most important research facilities.  Snake must return to Russia in order to set things right and prevent the breakout of a nuclear war.  The premise of the game is that Snake must use stealth- not guns- to complete his objectives.  Getting into a gunfight will more often than not get Snake killed.  Instead, Snake must use his surroundings and good timing to sneak past the enemy and ensure the destruction of the Shagohod.  Included with the release is the entire game of Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater with a number of additions.  The European Extreme has been added as an available difficulty level, being the hardest difficulty level in the entire series.  New face paints and more camera angles have been added to the mix, as well as a myriad of other features including a Duel Mode, allowing players to face off against their favorite bosses anytime they want.  Back by popular demand, Snake vs. Monkey has also returned with more maps than before!  Besides this, included on the bonus disk is a new online mode that has been included with Subsistence.  This new mode allows players to play MGS3 online with other players around the world.  Sony's servers allow the player to keep track of stats and friends.  Players can play with others around the world in different match types such as Capture mission and Sneaking missions.  To wrap up the original trilogy, Subsistence comes with the original version of the MSX games Metal Gear and Metal Gear 2: Solid Snake.  Never before released in America, the inclusion of these two games wraps up the entire series of games in the original trilogy of the origins of Solid and Naked Snake.
