Sony's baseball franchise returns for 2007 with updated rosters and classic features, such as season mode, managerial mode along with the classic career mode, but also has some new features as well.  One of the new features is the Road to the Show, a new take on the career mode that expands last years version.  Instead of playing every player on the team, the game focuses more on the player alone.  It will fast forward to decisions tied to the player (i.e. fielding a ball hit towards your player or batting), but also gives you goals to complete (i.e. knocking in a run or getting on base or trying for a double play while fielding).  Success of these goals will help you establish your place with the manager and team and give you a better chance for a major league start.  It also features an Adaptive Pitching Intelligence, where the game learns more from your at bats or your pitching, but also has your catchers help you out more by picking signals out instead of just randomly selecting pitches.  Another is umpire personality, where the strike zone is smaller or larger, depending upon the umpire calling the game at the time.  The all-new New Pitch Command System (PCS) delivers comprehensive strategy to pitch selection, as a pitcher's "pitch comfort" will be predetermined based on a best to worst pitch scenario, letting you decide whether to stick with what is working or begin a new pitching regiment.  PS2 and PS3 versions provide online league play, which also lets you check on real-time MLB scores and news while the PSP version also lets you play against others using Wi-Fi connection.  It features an extensive MLB license, with most of the players with a few exceptions and also features Rex Hudler, Matt Vasgersian and Dave Campbell as color commentators, providing realistic coverage, almost giving it a TV feel along with realistic graphics, giving the players and the action a very realistic feel, such as a pitchers let down after giving up a huge homerun or a team rushing the field to celebrate after hitting a homerun, winning the game.
