Based on Masashi Kishimoto’s manga (and anime adaptation later) Naruto, Ultimate Ninja 2 is the second installment of the Ultimate Ninja series. The current Naruto game has cel shaded graphics and features the following modes: Ultimate Road, VS. Duel, Iruka’s Training, Naruto’s House and Tanzaku Market.  1. Ultimate Road: Ultimate Road is your basic story mode and focuses on the events that took place on the finals of the Chunin Exam up to the point where Tsunade agrees to become the 5th Hokage. There is also an additional story that revolves around Tsunade and becomes accessible when you finish the main story. The particular mode features pre-rendered backgrounds that you can freely move within and 4 locations including the Village Hidden in the Leaves and Tanzaku Town. To advance the story you need to talk to certain people and win a row of battles each time. With each battle you’re given certain conditions that should be met in order to win. Such conditions are simply to win the battle, fight till time is up or more challenging like win the battle – with enemy’s defense power high. For specific events you may also choose a support character, before the battle starts, that will appear at regular intervals to give you items like shuriken and ninja scrolls that can be thrown to the enemy. The battles are one on one and play like in Vs. Duel mode. When the battle ends you get money and points depending on how many of your available moves you used, how many items you used, in how many arenas you fought, etc. You can spend money on Tanzaku Market and can use points to customize your characters’ stats like Attack and Defense from the menu. From the menu you can also check any missions available. Missions are actually battles with conditions such as the ones that are mentioned at the beginning but are of wider variety and higher difficulty.  2. VS. Duel: A versus fighting mode where you can choose your fighter and the opponent from 32 players available to fight versus the CPU or a human player. You start with 17 players and can unlock the rest by talking to them or defeating them in a fight in Ultimate Road mode. In the battle you get your basic moves like the substitution jutsu, double jump, blocking, etc. that are the same for all the players and combos and special techniques that are different to each character and do more damage than your normal moves. The arenas have multi-layers and destructible objects that reveal items you can throw or points to replenish your chakra (it can also be replenished by throwing your opponent to the ground or holding down the down cursor button). Chakra is what some combos and all 3 levels of special techniques need to execute.  When executing special techniques you are given the chance to interact with them. For example you may have to continuously push a certain button, rotate the right analog stick or press a combo of buttons that appear on the screen. If done correctly you may proceed to the next “stage” of the attack, add critical damage to it or reduce damage and/or cancel a technique if it’s initiated by the opponent.  3. Iruka’s Training: This is a practice mode where you can choose any of the 32 players available and master their moves.  4. Naruto’s House: Here you can view items bought at Tanzaku Market as well as enter codes.  5. Tanzaku Market: In Tanzaku Market you can buy Figures, Videos, Music, Ninja Info Cards, etc. that can be viewed at Naruto’s House.
