 STORY  A small family at the village of Water Drop spend they're summer vacation at home, all dreaming of one day catching the legendary King River fish.  In Harvest Fishing, you play one of the 4 possible characters available: The Father, Mother, Brother and Sister. All have their own personal reasons in catching the King River fish and are subject to different story plots. Each also have different starting character statistics.  GAMEPLAY  Gameplay of the Harvest Fishing may be categorized as the following:  Real-time Fishing Simulation and Preparation The fishing simulation in Harvest Fishing consists of various approaches which refer to different types of tools you can choose from to fish: Different fishing rods, different baits and lures attract different fish, making some easier or harder depending on which combination you choose. Fishing instruments may be purchased at a local store, while bait may either be purchased or be searched in your surroundings.  You start with one type of rod and minimal bait varieties. Catching fish requires you to fish near a body of water and wait for the fish to bite (results vary on different rods). After a bite, you enter a real-time fishing simulation sequence, where you can visibly see the fish underwater. You then have to lure the fish in while making sure your fishing line doesn't break. Captured fish may then be released, sold at the fishmonger for money or used for cooking ingredients or other requirements for sub-quests.  Failure to catch fish during this simulation will result in your character losing HP as well as the bait.  Adventuring There are a lot of fishing spots to choose from in this game. The others however must be first unlocked by following the plot of the story. Several mini-quests are also available to choose as well as participating in fishing and cooking tournaments.  Successfully catching fish will add experience to your fishing skill which will lead to leveling up your fishing level. Successfully trying cooking recipes will also increase your cooking level skill.
