The eleventh installment of the series continues the struggles of the warlords for power of China in the late Han dynasty through 8 available scenarios. Control more than 40 cities, build structures and armies with the help of hundreds of officers and decide the fate of China, yet again.  Game Perspective Romance of the Three Kingdoms XI uses the whole map of China from a side-scrolling and rotatable top-down perspective camera. All units, cities, and structures are viewable throughout the map, not requiring any form of espionage beforehand as in earlier Romance of the Three Kingdoms games. When the player(s) decides to "end a turn", own and AI units will commence their actions depending on which part of the map the player is currently viewing.   Officers There are over 800 officers, complete with individual portraits and biographies, also including other information such as combat skills, blood ties, and unit specialization. Additionally, completing the tutorial will unlock several officers from other periods of medieval China, such as Kong Qiu (Confucius).  Officers have statistical abilities which influence how the success rate a mentioned general may carry out a specific task. The abilities are: Leadership, War, Intelligence, Politics, and Charisma. Continuously performing tasks may increase any the primary statistics. In addition to abilities, some officers may also have specific skills. Skills provide unique active or passive capabilities for the officer in mention. For example, Zhao Yun has the "Insight" skill which renders him immune from all enemy combat strategies.  Combat Combat initiates immediately during each player turn. During the turn of any active player, the player may choose to move own units on the map and attack enemy land units or ships. All opponents may be attacked unless under alliance or cease fire, during which the player may also move through their territory freely.  Technical Points Player(s) actions may reward the player with technical points. These points may then be invested in the Romance of the Three Kingdoms XI version of a combat technological tree, thus enabling different strengths for each faction formerly defined only by its officers. Each branch in the technology tree will upgrade a particular unit type or defense option.
