This is a remake of the first  Romancing SaGa game.  The land of Mardias has experienced 1000 years of peace after the defeat of the 3 evil gods: Death, Saruin and Schirach. The last evil god standing, Saruin, was imprisoned with the power of the 10 Fatestones - scattered across Mardias. One thousand years later since Saruin's imprisonment, eight adventurers face an unknown destiny against the silent growing evil awaiting to challenge the lands of Mardias once again...  Gameplay Romancing SaGa is a 3rd perspective anime role-playing adventure game with turned-based combat. In this game, the player is 1 (one) of the possible 8 (eight) heroes/heroines available in the game.   Each character has a different main storyline, however choosing either character does not effect much of the storyline, regardless. In addition to different main storylines, each character has a different starting class (optional) which may be altered throughout the game.  Romancing SaGa uses a non-linear storyline. Characters may travel the land regardless of any main plot. The player's party consists of a maximum of 5 characters, of which may be added or removed throughout the game at your discretion.  Gameplay of Romancing SaGa may be categorized as the following:  1. Character Development and Skills Character development in Romancing SaGa is comprised of 2 different developments: The first is automatic statistic development where the characters "statistically level-up" per attribute (not per level) after each combat. The second is manual skill development where the player can trade in "jewels" to upgrade several skills of a character e.g. Longsword, Climbing, Search Chests, etc.  Character levels are represented by Character Class levels. Certain skills must be upgraded for a character to fulfill the requirements of that class. Each class has different traits, for example a "Swordsman" gains benefits in attack mode. Character classes do not effect the storyline.   Turned-based Combat Standard RPG turned based combat, where the uniqueness of the combat refers to automatic combo capabilities of your characters. Under certain situations, the player's characters may combine their attacks against an enemy (a combo) thus creating greater effects (in addition of visual effects).  Characters in combat throughout the course of combat may develop special weapon skills. Weapon skills may only be attained through combat through enlightenment (Glimmer). Weapon skills use BPs (Battle Points) and (sometimes) DPs (Duration Points), each weapon skill has different BPs, which are effected by the skills of a character, e.g. a character that has a level 2 skill in Longsword uses less BPs for his/her longsword weapon skill.  Another interesting feature about the weapons in regard to combat: each character may equip up to 5 weapons (optional) and may choose from those 5 different weapons at any point during combat, thus adding more tactical possibilities in combat. This reason for this may likely relate to DPs (Duration Points) of a weapon. If a DP of a weapon is used up (usually due to use of special weapon skills), the weapon breaks and is unusable during combat. It may only be repaired at a blacksmith or at an inn.   Unlike other RPGs, all attributes of the characters (health, etc.) are automatically healed after combat. However, if a character falls during combat, their LPs (Life Points) decrease. If the LP decreases to zero, the character will die permanently. LPs are regained by resting at an inn.
