 25 years after Space Invaders was released, Taito has decided to bring us a special anniversary edition that includes all the versions of Space Invaders that were ever released in the arcades, plus two extra game modes. These include:  1. Space Invaders - monochrome version: The original, as first appeared in 1978. Move your ship left or right, shooting at oncoming invaders, while dodging theirs. Shoot the flying saucer that goes across the screen for extra points. Four barriers protect you from invaders' shots, but will be destroyed after several hits. Once you shoot every invader on screen, you have to do it again and again. The game ends when all lives are lost.  2. Space Invaders - color version: Same version as above, but in color.  3. Space Invaders - cellophane version: Five strips of cellophane (cyan, green, yellow, blue, red) are placed across the game screen, in an attempt to block out the two black areas.  4. Space Invaders - upright version: Space Invaders in color, but a background has been added, and contains a planet and some stars.  5. Space Invaders doubles: Two players can play at the same time. Lives are separate, so if one players loses all their lives, the other keeps on playing.  6. Space Invaders Part II: Known as Space Invaders Deluxe in the US. The differences between the original and this game is that there are two different flying saucers: one is steadily visible and another blinks. Different points are awarded for each one that is killed. Also, from wave two onwards, invaders can be split into two when shot, and the flying saucers drop alien reinforcements. Also available as a cocktail cabinet.  2. Space Invaders VS: Two-player game. The screen is split is split into two, with each side reserved for each player. Invaders occupy both sides. The object of the game is to kill these invaders, so that you can destroy the ship at the top of the screen that belongs to your opponent. Matches are determined before the start of the game. You can have a CPU opponent.  7. Space Invaders 3D: Everything on screen appears in 3D. Instead of bullets, not only do invaders shoot arrows at you, but they can launch fireballs at you. You lose a life when you come in contact with these. As always, flying saucers go across the screen, but will then fly directly toward you. When these saucers are hit, you automatically receive a power-up that will help you kill the invaders.  Before you start each game, you can adjust the view of which you can play. One view shows the cabinet as it is played as if you are standing in front of the machine itself, while another allows you to play the game in full-screen mode. The sounds of Space Invaders serves as the background music, but this can be changed to music from various Taito games, such as Bubble Bobble, Elevator Action, The Fairyland Story, Darius, and several others. Other options let you choose the number of lives to start off with and adjust the number of points needed to gain extra lives.  Along with the games, you can also view promotional material, as well as any development sheets for the original game.
