The 2008 edition in the Tiger Woods PGA series introduces enhancements and improvements to the previous version without major graphical or gameplay changes. There are new courses (Xbox 360/PS3: 5 new, 16 in total - PS2: 6 new, 18 in total) and different licensed professional golf players to choose from (21 on the Xbox 360/PS3 - 23 on the PS2/Wii).  The Xbox 360, PS2, PS3 and Windows versions allow players to import photos to create in-game faces on the characters based on custom images, using the Xbox Live Vision camera, PlayStation EyeToy, PlayStation Eye or a webcam. Further customizations include clothing, hair or eye color and more. The initial statistics can be improved by completing challenges based on power or putting precision. They can also be raised by performing well in the PGA Tour, taking into account skill shots and not just the overall ranking. Players can unlock additional golfers and spend their winnings in the shop on new equipment.  The game incorporates the FedExCup championship format (a collection of tournaments) with rounds of golf at Westchester Country Club, TPC Boston, Cog Hill, and East Lake. The putt preview has been improved, allowing the player to simulate the ball's path once per individual spot, taking into accounts elements such as power, speed and elevation. On the Xbox 360 and the PS3, shots are not performed using the analog stick, but with the 3-point timed principle for start, power and accuracy. Shot Confidence is a new addition, keeping track of the player's performance on certain courses, for specific puts and using certain clubs. Great performances raise the confidence, which translates into experience and better performance on specific courses. Low confidence leads to lower accuracy, a pumping heartbeat, and rumbling controls on the Wii.  The multiplayer (up to 4 players) has been expanded with GamerNet, where players can create and play custom challenges with their scores posted online (Xbox 360/PS3/Windows).  On the Wii, players can shake the controls to taunt the opponents with 4 different moves, to throw them off. It can be used to influence air conditions, spin, or adds audio distractions. The controls are available in 3 modes: Full Swing (wii remote), Sitting Swing (new, waggle the wii remote) or the classic controls using the nunchuck for analog play. In Full Swing, twisting the wii remote adds hooks and slices prior to shots. Also exclusive to the Wii is a Miniputt mode.
