Torino 2006 is the official game of the XX Winter Olympic Games held in Turin, Italy, and the eight in the line of multi-event IOC licensed titles. The game includes 15 events scattered on 8 disciplines: Alpine Skiing (Downhill, Super G, Giant Slalom and Slalom), Ski Jump (Normal and Large hill), Speed Skating (500m, 1000m and 1500m), Women's Biathlon, Nordic Combined, Bobsled (Womens' 2 and Mens' 4), Luge and Cross Country. All venues were modelled after their real counterparts.  Gameplay, as expected, requires more reflexes than the button-bashing of their Summer counterparts. Alpine Skiing is a matter of skill and quick reflexes, as the player, other than set the direction, only has to choose when to crouch to gain speed (mostly in Downhill and Giant Slalom) and when to carve the snow for sharper turns (either to correct a bad trajectory or approach a tighter gate). These events are based on a simplified version of the engine that power Ski Alpin 2006, also by 49Games. Unlike most other games that feature alpine skiing, the penalty for missing gate depends on the difficulty level chosen: on easy, six misses are allowed, three in medium and none on hard, each carrying a time penalty that depending on how well the player did can just affect the total score or mean losing a medal.  Ski Jump (also a simplified version of another game, RTL Skispringen 2006) requires the player to keep the balance while descending the hill, jumping at the correct time, counter the effect of the wind in the athletes' balance for maximum distance and then land in perfect telemark fashion.  Cross Country and Biathlon are relaxed disciplines where all that counts is keeping the best trajectory possible while looking out for straight paths that can be used for short sprints and downhill slopes that can be done while crouching, which allows greater speeds and lower fatigue accumulated from sprints and more hasty climbs. Biathlon is pretty much the same as Cross Country, except it also includes two shooting sessions, with the steadiness of the aim affected by the fatigue levels.  Skating disciplines require a strong, well timed start, and then accurate button pressing as the skater makes each step.  Bobsled and Luge are similar with only two differences: The startup in Bobsled is done by following the on-screen cues and press up on the right time and other than setting the direction, it's also possible to make minimal path changes. The winner is the fastest competitor after two heats (instead of the official four).  Nordic Combined is a Large hill ski jump which sets the start time for each competitor in the Cross country section.  It's possible to compete in all 15 or just 9 events, or even create your own competition, with up to four competitors. At each competition the players aim for both medals and the score table, based on the results on each individual event. However, the challenge does not stop with winning medals. The player can unlock additional strips by completing challenges, such as hitting all 10 targets in Biathlon, having a perfect Bobsled start, winning a gold medal and beat each top record on every event or not missing a single step on Speed Skating. The difficulty level affects events differently: in Alpine skiing,  it means CPU-controlled players are faster and fewer gate misses are allowed, in Ski jump wind can appear from any direction and in Speed skating, in addition to set the pace, the player also has to steer the athlete to keep her in the best path.
