 In Trapt, the player takes on the role of Princess Allura, horrified by the sudden murder of her father the King of Fronenburg and worse, being framed for his murder by step mother - Queen Catalina, later forced unwillingly to flee the castle with her maid Rachel.   Fleeing her pursuers, she takes refuge in a forbidden castle, known through rumors as the place where an evil being only known as "the Fiend" was imprisoned. It was not by coincidence she was led here, as it turns out she was chosen by the Fiend to become her servant and wielder of the evil power the Fiend possesses. This power transforms the once innocent princess into a brutal "Trapmaster" capable of summoning and activating traps at will to the unwary enemy.   The game starts in this castle and the unfolding of this new-found power as well as the attempts of Princess Allura and her allies in thwarting the plans of Queen Catalina.  Trapt set is in medieval Europe of which, most of the game play is located in and around castle rooms, though not specifically limited to the aforementioned castle. Gameplay of Trapt consists the following:   1. Traps/Info Screen In this section the player has access to various important information to prepare for the upcoming mission/story, such as traps and items that may be bought (providing you have enough money), upcoming enemies and their stats in the next mission, and room information of areas available for access in addition to what traps are already located there.   Real-Time Combat This is where the real game play occurs, 3rd person perspective view of the character and her surroundings. Most of the game play consists killing off enemies by placing traps to the unwary pursuer. The Princess cannot fight personally (only run) so the player has to rely on the traps to survive.  Unlike other similar games with a trap system, in Trapt the traps are not automatically set. The player have to activate them manually by pressing the appropriate triggers (via buttons) to activate the traps. The 3 different button/triggers represent 3 different traps: Floor traps, Ceiling traps, and Wall traps. These are the only traps the player has direct access to.  Other traps or devices are also located in the many rooms. The player can "link/connect" them with other traps to create combos at the displeasure of the enemy. The more combo's, the more money the player acquires, of which means the more traps the player can purchase for future planning.   Placing traps can be done at any point during this real-time setting, which is basically the uniqueness of your powers. This means you can move and place traps around, even when the enemy is chasing you. However, traps have to recharge: after it is placed and after it is sprung, so timing is also crucial here.
