 This is a direct sequel to the first episode of the science-fiction RPG Xenosaga series.  The story takes place thousands of years in the future, when mankind has long left the Earth, which is now called Lost Jerusalem, and founded a star empire. The main threat humanity has to face is the appearance of a super-powerful alien race called the Gnosis. The story picks up just after the concluding events of the first episode. Shion Uzuki, the young engineer who designed the powerful android KOS-MOS, arrives with her friends at the planet Second Miltia. They aim to learn more about the heritage of the late genius scientist Joachim Mizrahi, and to stop the schemes of the mysterious villains Albedo and Margulis. Jin Uzuki, Shion's brother, who was only mentioned in the first game, becomes an important character in the second episode. We also learn more about the origin of the boy chaos, and about the race of Realians, artificial humans created by Mizrahi.  The gameplay in general and the battle system in particular are quite similar to that of the first game. All enemies are visible on screen, and field objects can be destroyed in order to attract the attention of the enemy or to create a zone that will weaken it. The turn-based combat again features triangle and square attacks, which now inflict different damage on enemies of different height. Another addition is the ability to wait two or three turns in a battle, accumulating energy for a stronger attack. The AGWS (giant robots) battles are still present, but you can't switch to AGWS at any point, like it was possible in the first game. Another game aspect removed from the first game is money, as well as shops, weapons, and armor of any kind. The only items in the game are healing items or keys that unlock the ability to learn high level skills.  The second episode continues to be heavy on story development, and also has a significant amount of non-interactive cut scenes. Character graphics underwent the biggest change. The characters look now more realistic and less "deformed" or animé-like.
