 Year 20XX. Lake Turkana, Kenya.  A group of scientists discover a mysterious monolith called Zohar.  Year 4767 T.C. - Transcend Christ, or 7277 A.D., according to the old year-counting system. Zohar is no longer a mystery. All space ships are Zohar-powered. Humanity left the planet Earth (which is now called Lost Jerusalem) long ago, and founded a galactic empire on 30000 planets. However, a hostile alien race called "Gnosis" is hunting after Zohar. Giant bi-pedal robots called Anti-Gnosis Weapon Systems (pronounced "eggs") do not seem to be enough to stop the Gnosis. The Vector Corporation decides to develop an android called KOS-MOS to be the ultimate weapon against the Gnosis. Shion Uzuki is the 22-year-old engineer leading this project.  Xenosaga is not part of the same universe as the Square game Xenogears, although it is based on the back-story of that game as written in Xenogears Perfect Works. The events of Xenosaga are roughly analogous to the very first events in the history of Xenogears, although as the series progressed events would diverge more and more from the timeline of Xenogears. "Der Wille zur Macht" is one of the central aspects of Friedrich Nietzsche's philosophy, meaning "The will to power".   The battle system is not unlike the one used in Xenogears (combo attacks, AP and EP gauges, etc.), but random encounters are eliminated. Instead, the enemies are now visible and battles can be avoided. During combat the next few ally and enemy turns will be shown onscreen, allowing the player to make strategic decisions based on who will act next. A rolling slot moves with each turn as well, conferring a bonus such as added damage or bonus XP for any action on that turn. If the enemy would be in position to take an advantage then the player can expend a character's "boost" gauge to cut in and act next, although enemies can boost as well, and enemy boosts always over-ride player boosts. Each character has a unique tree of Ether spells they can learn by spending Ether points earned in battle, with lower spells requiring spells above them to be purchased first. After a spell is purchased, so long is it does not require a unique talent of that character, the spell can also be purchased and learned by any other character that can afford double its normal cost. The Anti-Gnosis Weapon Systems can be equipped with different weapons and accessories and can be used in combat provided that a character has enough AP on that turn to board their AGWS.
