The classic dungeon crawler RPG series continues in Wizardry II. The sequel to the original Wizardry follows the defeat of the evil Werdna and the return of Mad Overlord Trebor's amulet. Following your party's success in that adventure, they were inducted into Trebor's personal honor guard. Unfortunately this particular honor didn't last very long as Trebor's madness and obsession with the amulet and preventing Werdna's return drove him to suicide.

With both Trebor and Werdna dead all seemed well within the kingdom of Llylgamyn. Unfortunately this peace didn't last very long. Besides Werdna, it seems that there was another evil fella living in Llylgamyn named Davalpus. With Werdna dead and out of the limelight, Davalpus felt it was time to make his move. He stormed the castle, slaughtered the royal family, and declared himself supreme dictator for life.

Don't worry, this game isn't about preparing for a big final battle with Davalpus. That's already been done for you. The Prince of the land fought and killed Davalpus using the legendary Staff of Gnilda and wearing the armor of the Knight of Diamonds. Unfortunately the god Gnilda, more than a bit ticked off with all this bickering, took the staff back and placed it deep within his heavily guarded six-level temple. Since the staff's power protects the land from invasion by hostile outlanders, someone will need to venture into the temple and get it back along with Gnilda's blessing. That someone is you.

In order to hold the staff one of your party members will need to retrieve all five pieces of the legendary armor and become the Knight of Diamonds. Only then may they quest for the staff and return it to it's rightful place. But beware, each of the the armor pieces is a living entities and will not be taken without a fight.

Wizardry II uses the same basic engine and graphics as the previous game. Players have the option of transferring characters from the previous Wizardry, or generating new characters from scratch.
