720? is a 1- or 2-player (alternating) skateboard themed game with both competitive and street-style skating action. The player portrays the skater who performs skate maneuvers for points and competes in skate parks for medals. The action takes place in a Skate City where all surfaces are skateable. Players can choose where they want to skate in the city, and which skate parks they want to enter, making each new game a different experience.
At the start of each game, players can select one of two play modes. A training game is available for beginning players. In this game, there are numerous playing hints and messages, and the add-a-coin feature is disabled. Experienced players can start off by skating to a higher platform. Fewer game hints are given in this mode, and the add-a-coin feature is offered.
Game play starts with the player in the middle of Skate City. Using a new rotary control and a jump and a Kick button, players maneuver around the city trying to score points by performing skillful skate moves. At various score thresholds, skate park tickets are rewarded. These tickets allow entry into one of the skate parks, where players compete against the clock for gold, silver or bronze medals.
The player's main objective is to compete in as many skate parks as possible. In the city streets, players have a limited amount of time to win entry tickets and make their way to a skate park. In addition, there are numerous city hazards which must be avoided such as BMX riders, cars, Frisbee throwers, and other gangs. To guide the player in the city, players find map areas in streets which momentarily display the layout of the city and the location of the skate parks.
In 720? there are ten class levels which determine the degree of difficulty in the skate parks and the timer in the streets. Players select the class level in which they want to compete. For instance, at the start of each game, there are four unique skate parks which are located in the outskirts of the city. Each park is a different class ranging from class 1 difficulty, which is the easiest, to class 4 difficulty, the hardest.
In 720? players can compete in over 20 different skate parks. Each one requires unique skill moves to qualify for a medal. There are variations of a half-pipe ramp, a downhill; a slalom and a jump park. Each skate park has a distinct music score of its own, creating a different mood for players.
In the skate parks, cash prizes arc awarded to players that qualify for a medal. After each skate park competition, the game continues back in the city for more street-style skating. Players can use their cash winnings to buy equipment from various skate shops which are located throughout the city. Skating equipment helps players perform better moves. Boards give faster speed. Helmets allow more risk-taking for successful maneuvers. Pads give faster recovery from falls. Shoes provide more height on jumps and quicker starts. As a reference for locating skate shops and park entrances, players find map areas throughout the city by skating over a map. A layout of the city is momentarily displayed when players skate over a map.
In 720? a game ends only when players run out of time in the city. When the timer is running low, a SKATE OR DIE message appears along with a warning in speech. When the timer runs out, killer-bees appear as a final warning. If the player is killed by the bees before entering a skate park, the game is over. Using the add-a-coin feature, players can continue where they left off. 720? has an operator option to select maximum number of add-a-coins allowed. By using the add-a-coin, players can keep any special skate equipment they have acquired in the previous game, as well as all accumulated cash, tickets, points, and medals.
