 Up to four players can compete in this home version of Namco's well-known Galaxian coin-op. Options include a choice of four levels of difficulty and the ability to set the number of cannons given to each participant.      As most arcaders already know, Galaxian is a sort of "son of Space Invaders". Gamers move a laser cannon horizontally and fire upward at a swarm of insectoid creatures. Periodically, a trio of invaders peels off from the main body of attackers to sweep down and across the playfield, spraying the ground below with deadly bombs.      The aliens are a lot easier to hit while they're still in formation, but better players will always withhold fire until some begin to swoop. An attack is worth twice as much when it is zapped in the midst of a dive-bombing run.      Galactic Invasion's graphics are nice and colorful, but they don't quite match the artistic detail of the drawings used in the coin-op machine. The insects' wings, for example, are not visible in the home program.      The play-value, however is outstanding. The pistol-grip design of the Astro Arcade controllers give players excellent control over on-screen movement. The action sets a blistering pace that packs all the excitement of the arcade original. A Strategy depends on a combination of the skill of the player and the level of difficulty selected. In the easier versions, better marksmen will definitely want to wait until the insects make their move before lifting a finger to take them out.      At the higher difficulty settings, Galactic Invasion is just plain murderous. Deadly aliens streak across the screen to ram the defending cannon and are capable of dropping a dozen bombs in one pass. Only the top gunners should sit back and wait for the bugs to make the first move. If they so much as twitch, blast 'em immediately. Once a three-insect group begins a sweep, all but the super-shots are virtually assured of being one "life" down by the time the maneuver is completed.      The aliens always break formation from the sides. Therefore, a wise arcader will begin to attack from either the extreme left or right side of the playfield. That way, you'll have a good chance to eliminate the invaders before they come barreling down the screen at your gun.      Galactic Invasion is one of the first cartridges Astrovision has released since acquiring the Professional Arcade from Bally. It is exactly the kind of well-conceived entry that should get all home arcaders to sit up and take notice of the revived system.
