Jeremy McGrath Supercross World features 10-time supercross champion Jeremy McGrath and his heir apparent, Travis Pastrana, as well as eight other top supercross pros, including Sebastian Tortelli, Ezra Lusk, Tim Ferry, Grant Langston, Mike Brown, Ernesto Fonseca, Nathan Ramsey, and James Stewart. The game's 25 supersized tracks encompass indoor supercross, outdoor motocross, freestyle, and, for the first time in a supercross game, Baja mode. The game is designed for anyone to pick up and play, but it also offers depth of gameplay. You can ride as any of the pros for a quick freestyle tournament with your friends, or battle your way through the championship mode for a longer gaming experience. The game features an innovative stunt advantage system: when players perform a stunt and land it correctly, they'll receive a brief speed boost or other skill advantage. It pays to be on point with your aerial skills. Each track has various minichallenges. Every time a player completes a challenge for a track, he or she will earn a trophy. The game's freestyle mode packs two-dozen tricks, including nac-nacs, supermans, fender grabs, 360s, and barrel rolls. The freestyle arenas are wide-open outdoor and indoor areas where you'll have plenty of room to perform mind-bending tricks by yourself or head-to-head with a friend. The attribute system is broken down into eight attributes (four rider and four bike). Rider attributes (stability, slide, preload, and charisma) can be upgraded as a reward for doing well in career mode. Bike attributes (power band, top speed, cornering, and suspension) are preconfigured for each bike. The gamer will have to determine the best way to allocate earned attribute points on top of his or her bike attributes. Gamers who optimize rider and bike attributes will have the best chance of winning it all. In addition, the game offers head-to-head split-screen gameplay. Race your friends in any of our four split-screen modes: Baja, freestyle, indoor supercross, or outdoor motocross. 
