CHALLENGER is the newest video game to be introduced by Centuri. With its vivid colors and lively setting, it is sure to lure the most ardent player into game action.
The game consists of 16 sectors (rounds) of play. Sector 1 begins with Large Energy Rings floating randomly across the screen. The Spaceship must avoid colliding with the Rings, or it will explode into a starburst of brilliant colors. The Spaceship dodges the Energy Rings by moving right or left across the playfield, while bursting them with the Spaceship's 3-directional guns. Bursting the Large Rings (100 points) breaks them into Medium Rings. Bursting the Medium Rings (200 points) breaks them into Small Rings. Bursting the Small Rings (400 points) causes them to disintegrate.
The Spaceship is further protected by a feature called a 'Warp' button. By depressing this button, the Spaceship will relocate from the top or bottom of the screen to the opposite side.
If the Spaceship is in ultimate danger of being destroyed, releasing its Super Bomb will wipe out all the objects on the playfield, and add the point value of the objects to your score. Use of the Super Bomb is lost, if the ship is destroyed first. Only one Super Bomb is awarded per Spaceship.
At any time, a colorful Space Bogey resembling a Worm may appear on screen and proceed to chase the Spaceship. If the Worm is destroyed by Spaceship fire, or dodged successfully for several seconds, a 'clang' is heard and the Worm (500 points) wriggles off the screen in a bright red hue of embarrassment. If the Spaceship is caught by the Worm, a bell is sounded, and the astronaut is chased out of his ship in pursuit of safety.
At random time intervals a Bonus Bug will walk across the playfield, stop, and count down a Bonus Number. This number is equal to 100 times its value. To receive this Bonus, the Spaceship must link with the nose of the Bonus Bug.
When the Spaceship has survived 50 Seconds of playing time, it now enters the challenges of the next sector.
The remaining 15 sectors are played in the same manner as Sector one. The differences include that each succeeding sector increases in difficulty. The Energy Rings increase in number and move faster across the screen making them harder to dodge. Also there are several Space Bogeys introduced in the first 8 sectors. They also increase in number with advancement through each sector. Some of the Space Bogeys resemble Comets whizzing through space. Others resemble Spaceships from other worlds. Each Space Bogey (500 points), is an assemblage of bright colors, and when destroyed, burst with a "clang" into a spray of bright light.
Sectors 4, 8, 12, and 16, are alike as follows. A few seconds after the Energy Rings are broken into smaller pieces, they are pulled into a Black Hole in the center of the screen. While swirling across the game area, the condensed Rings expand and shatter into fragments which must be destroyed before they absorb the Spaceship.
When Sector 16 has been accomplished, it will return to Sector 9.
When Bonus levels are achieved, an additional Ship will be added to your game.
CHALLENGER INSTRUCTIONS
1. Burst energy rings to score and increase bonus levels.
Large rings - 100 points
Medium rings - 200 points
Small rings - 400 points
2. After all the small rings are hit, advance to the next sector.
3. In each sector, space bogeys appear and score 500 points when hit.
4. When the bonus bug walks across the playfield and stops, bonus points are counted down. To collect the bonus, link the ship with nose of the bug.
5. Pressing the warp button immediately relocates the ship from the top or bottom of the playfield to the opposite side.
6. The Super Bomb button destroys all objects on the playfield screen and awards total point value to your score.
7. One Super Bomb is awarded per ship.  Use of it will be lost if the ship is destroyed first.	
8. Game is over when all the ships have been destroyed.
