For the second game in the Mr. Do. series the clown finds himself in a traditional platforms and ladders game. Each level is made up of six floors (seven including the castle's ramparts) and all are joined by a number of inter-connecting ladders. The ladders come in two different varieties: vertical ladders, which are fixed and cannot be moved; and diagonal ladders, which can be pushed left or right from the top of the ladder. This allows Mr. Do. to reach other areas of the level and is sometimes necessary to redirect the path of any pursuing enemies.
The enemies in "Mr Do's Castle" come in the form of unicorns, and as with the enemies of the first game, they will hunt down and try to kill Mr. Do. Replacing the 'Powerball' weapon of the original game, Mr Do is now armed with a mallet. This can be used to temporarily stun the game's unicorns and buy the player time to escape; but its primary function is to knock out the floor blocks that form each level's platforms.
Most blocks are marked with a cherry and collecting all of these will complete the level. A level can also be completed by killing all of the unicorns. This is achieved by using the mallet to remove blocks and knock holes in the platforms. The unicorns will fall into any holes that the player has created; some simply fall through to the platform below, whereas others are trapped. Trapped unicorns can be hit with Mr. Do's mallet and knocked to a lower platform - useful for buying a few extra seconds for the player. If left alone, however, the unicorns will climb out, filling the hole in behind them, and transform into much nastier enemies. These new enemies cannot be stunned with the mallet and must be killed by dropping blocks onto them from the platform above.
Some sections of a platform have two 'skull' blocks at either end of them, with normal cherry blocks in-between. When both skull blocks are knocked out with the mallet, all the blocks in between will fall to reveal wooden floorboards. This is highly effective in killing several enemies at once.
Each level also has three 'Key' blocks. If Mr.Do. knocks out all of the key blocks, a large door opens at the top of the screen to reveal a shield which, when collected, turns the unicorns into 'Alphamonsters'. The Alphamonsters flee from Mr. Do. and can be killed either with the mallet, or by dropping a floor block onto them from above. When Mr. Do. kills an Alphamonster, its letter appears on a flagpole at the top of the screen. If the players collects all five letters, an extra life is awarded.,
