One of many sequels to the legendary "Pac-Man" Jr. Pac-Man features the character of Pac-Man's son. For the first time in the series' history, side-scrolling mazes were introduced, with each maze being two screens wide.
This time, the mazes have no exit tunnels through which players can make an escape. The bonus items that appear move around the maze and are now something of a mixed blessing, as not only will they destroy any Power Pills they come across, but they will also turn any normal dots they pass over into large dots that slow the player's movements considerably, but are worth more points than normal dots if eaten by the player. Any mutated dots in the maze will disappear if the player loses a life.
The Pac-Man character is once again pursued by four ghosts (Blinky, Pinky, Inky and Tim) in his quest to eat all of the dots in each maze. And as before, numerous Power Pills litter the mazes that, when eaten, allow Jr. to eat the pursuing ghosts.
As with previous "Pac-Man" games, intermissions are featured between certain levels. Jr. Pac-Man's intermissions are episodic in nature, like those found in Ms. Pac-Man. Jr. Pac-Man's story tells of the blossoming love between a Pac-Man and a small ghost named Yum-Yum.
Act I - Jr. Meets Yum-Yum : Jr. Pac-Man steps outside his home to play. He spots Yum-Yum beyond the fence in his yard and goes outside to meet her. Blinky, hiding in the shadows, comes out from hiding to catch Jr. However Ms. Pac-Man, keeping a watchful eye over her child, sees the commotion from her window and runs out to the yard to eat a Power Pill and chase both ghosts away while Jr. returns to the safety of home. This intermission is played after Round 1.
Act II - The Gift : It seems that Jr. can't get the enchanting young ghost out of his mind, so he proceeds to bring a balloon to her as a gift the next day. Excited to see her, he meets her on a bridge and hands her the balloon, when we catch a glimpse of Blinky lurking behind a bush. This intermission is played after Round 3.
Act III - They Escape : Blinky moves from one bush to the another, startling Yum-Yum into releasing the balloon. Blinky attempts to capture Jr. once and for all, but once again, Ms. Pac-Man comes to the rescue. Blinky chases her off to the left, while Jr. Pac-Man and Yum-Yum escape to the right. Once alone, they gaze in to each other's eyes and fall in love, with hearts appearing all around them. This intermission is played after Rounds 5, 7, and 9.,
