An athletics game featuring 8 tournaments :
Interceptor
A real life missile defense style-contest as missiles are being launched from a ship, and you must use your mystical powers to stop the oncoming missiles. The outside buttons (1 & 3) make you step to the left or right, and the middle button is fire. Failure to hit the missile results in you being blown up. If you select Sharon from France, most of her clothes would disappear except for the bottom part of her suit.
Niagara Jumps
The final competition in the tournament. It is also considered to be the most difficult competition in the game. Very similar to the Triple Jump competition in the Olympics. The object is this contest is to make it across the falls. Alternately press buttons 1 and 3 to build up speed, then press button 2 three times. If you don't time yourself properly, you will sink and drown and you will go down the steep falls.
Nonstop Rock Chop
You must smash as many rocks as you can before time runs out. Rapidly press buttons 1 and 3 alternately until the gauge is full, then press button 2 to smash the rock.
Numan Sniper
In this contest, monsters will jump out of the sea from three different locations. Your object, destroy them. Press buttons 1, 2 or 3 varying by their location to shoot.
Scud Toss
Just as in the Javelin competition in the Olympics. Played on a "Track and Field"-like field with an only exception -- a missile. Rapidly and continuously press the two run buttons and then push and hold the middle button to set the angle of which you would throw the missile. Again, like Interceptor, if you select Sharon -- then again if she is faulted, she will be missing most of her clothes.
Tower Topper
Here you are expected to climb up to the building rooftop with the fastest time possible. Press button 2 repeatly to scale the side of a building. If you press it too early -- you won't move, but if you press it too late -- you will fall off.
Turbo Dash
Much like the 100m Dash in the Olympics -- only the core elements have slightly changed. You are racing against a drag racer and another player. Press the two outside buttons (1 & 3) in alternate fashion until your RSI (or 'special speed') sets in.
VS. Express
Very similar to a fimilar scene in the Superman comic books. You must stop the oncoming train using your magical powers and send it in the opposite direction backwards. Press button 2 to stop the train, then hammer the outside buttons to build up power before bunging it back down the track. If you don't time this right -- the train will run you over.
