In the cartoon world of Pac-Land a fairy is lost and needs Pac-Man to help her get back to her home in Fairyland. Pac-Man's efforts are hampered by his ever-present enemies in the form of five deadly ghosts - Pinky, Inky, Blinky, Clyde and Sue - who constantly pursue Pac-Man as he travels through the colourful world of Pac-Land. When Pac-Man has helped the lost fairy get back to her home in Fairyland on the final stage of each trip, he is given a pair of magic shoes to help get back to his own home in Pac-Land.
In this, the 8th game in the seminal series, Namco opted to steer the series away from the maze-based antics of Pac-Man's previous adventures and instead created a colourful, sideways-scrolling platform game. This change of direction necessitated the addition of arms, legs and a face to the previously basic Pac-Man character, although much of the design work had already been completed for the 'Hanna-Barbera' cartoon series upon which the game is based.
Directional buttons make Pac-Man walk right or left, and it's possible to make him run by pressing down on a directional button repeatedly. Pac-Man must avoid the ghosts and other deadly objects that populate Pac-Land, either by jumping over or dodging them; unless, of course, he has picked up one of the mandatory Pac-Man 'Powerpills' that litter the levels which, as in Pac-Man's previous outings, make him temporarily invincible and turn the ghosts blue and vulnerable to being eaten. Each stage must also be completed within a set time limit, otherwise Pac-Man will be constantly pursued by a ghost. On some stages, Pac-Man must use a springboard to jump over large ponds. Everytime Pac-Man makes it to the end of a stage, a bonus will be awarded based on how much time is left. On each stage, there are cherries and other items which Pac-Man can collect to score points.
Upon reaching the end of the final stage, Pac-Man will be given a pair of magic shoes that will help him on his way home. When he has reached home, he will meet with Ms. Pac-Man, Baby Pac-Man, Chomp Chomp the Pac-dog and Sourpuss the Pac-cat. The game then begins again.,
