Pac-Mania is a 1- or 2-player (alternating) game in which players maneuver the new Pac-Man through a world of 3-D mazes. He's back in action... but with a new twist BOUNCE power! Ready for a new generation of Pac-Man players, he can't wait for the chance to show off his new aerial maneuvers to the crowd! The "boss" ghost Clyde has recruited the talents of 2 new ghosts, Sue and Funky. Pac-Man must use his speed and cunning to outwit these annoying pests.
Pac-Man now faces new challenges as he enters the worlds of Block Town, Pac-Man's Park, Sandbox Land, and Jungly Steps. Fortunately for Pac-Man, he has the help of 2 'special items' - a green and red power pill. The green pill adds temporary speed, and the red awards double points. It's a whole new ball game for Pac-Maniacs!
Game play begins with the opportunity for players to level select among one of three playfield worlds : Block Town, Pac-Man's Park or Sandbox Land. With Block Town being the easiest and Sandbox Land being the harder, players are accordingly rewarded for selecting and completing the challenges in this mode.
The player's main objective is to eat all dots and power pills in the mazes while avoiding persistent ghosts. Using the new BOUNCE button, players can bounce their way over the ghosts to avoid being caught. But two new ghosts have been added to insure that Pac-Man doesn't have it too easy. In fact, one of them can also bounce in the air like Pac-Man. Fortunately, these rivals of Pac-Man are only found in the more demanding worlds and mazes.
During play, the appearance of fruit and green/red power pills will trigger the bell. This alerts players immersed in the game who might otherwise miss these valuable items. A green power pill awards extra speed; it is good until a yellow or red power pill is eaten and expires or a game life is lost. Red power pills award double points, and continue to do so until a game life is lost.
An optional continue feature is offered to allow players to continue their progress without having to start back at the beginning. It's a great way for Pac-Maniacs to learn and practice strategies without having to re-start games from the beginning. Bonus thresholds are offered at various score values, and are adjustable.,
