Pole Position II is a 1-player game using a color raster-scan video display. Game action takes place at 4 different raceways - the Fuji Speedway in Japan the Test Track (an oval track like Indy), the Seaside Speedway (with the Long Beach Pike in the background), and the Suzuka Speedway in Japan. The unique and picturesque scenery around each raceway adds exciting realism to each race!
The driver drives a Formula-1 race car on each track. Player controls consist of a steering wheel, a two-position gear shifter, an accelerator, and a brake pedal (on the Sit-Down cabinet). The first objective of the game is to finish the qualifying lap as quickly as possible. If the driver beats the time, he qualifies for the race. If he does not qualify, he drives the remainder of his time along the qualifying course.
As a qualifier, the driver is ranked according to his qualifying lap time, from position one (the pole position) to position eight. Then the driver's second objective is to race against the clock and other cars to finish the race laps as fast as possible, and to achieve the highest score possible. The driver earns points for passing cars, driving on the track, and finishing the race with time remaining. The time remaining from the Racing Lap is added to the extended lap time.
To start the Play Mode, a driver must first insert the correct number of coin(s) for a game (according to the coin dip switch settings, 1 coin/1 credit is the default for both 'Coin A' and 'Coin B' dips). Then the driver turns the steering wheel until the track he wants to drive on is highlighted in white. The Play Mode will begin when the driver steps on the accelerator. The driver's car will appear behind the starting line and a certain amount of time, in seconds ('Game Time' dip switch setting; the default is 90 seconds) will be on the clock. The car must finish the qualifying lap within the time allotted to be in the race. If the driver does not qualify, his car continues on the track until the 'Game Time' elapses.
If the driver has qualified, just before the race begins, the driver's car (flashing on the screen) is placed at the starting line with seven other cars. The position of the car depends on the position earned during the qualifying lap.
The starting lights flash from red to green, and the race begins. Racing hazards are other racing cars, sharp turns, water puddles, and road signs (all of these hazards also appear during the qualifying lap with the exception of water puddles). As the race progresses, more cars appear on the track. If the driver's car hits another car or a road sign, the driver's car is destroyed in an explosion. (Pole Position II adds flying debris to the visual effect.) The driver's car reappears in a few seconds and the race continues. Driving through water puddles or off the track slows down the driver's car considerably.
Experience will teach a driver which turns on which tracks require slight steering (because they're banked) and which turns require fast and forceful steering. He jockeys for position with the other racers, while keeping his eye on the clock at the top of the screen. When his time runs out, the race is over. If he has beaten the racing lap time and has seconds remaining, the remaining seconds are added to the extended lap time, which varies depending on the track and the 'Extended Rank' dip switch setting.
The top score achieved by a driver appears at the top of the screen. The time allotted for the lap is displayed under the top score. Increasing lap time (in seconds and hundredths of a second) and the speed of the car appears last. Each track has its own separate high score list.,
