STAR TREK is a 1- or 2-player SEGA Color X-Y video game with computerized speech synthesis. The player finds himself the Captain of the Starship Enterprise, his mission being to rid the universe of a number of threats to the United Federation of Planets.
STAR TREK has a unique method of displaying the information vital to the game play. This method involves the separation of the CRT into three completely separate screens.
The Scanner is where the player sees a top down or plan view of local space, with the Enterprise always in the center of this screen. The Viewer is where the player sees actual apparent 3-D images, as if he were looking out the ships front window. The Status screen displays player score in addition to Shield strength, number of Photon Torpedoes, and amount of Warp energy remaining.
The game begins by introducing Klingons, Starbases and the Enterprise into the Scanner with an exciting shrink down animation sequence. The Enterprise starts with 1 to 4 Shields and Photon Torpedoes (switch selectable). By actuating the rotary knob and depressing the Thrust button the player may maneuver about the Scanner screen.
In order to destroy enemies the player may use either of two weapons : Phasers (the Fire button) or Photon Torpedoes. Each has unique properties.
* Phasers are instantaneous, can destroy only one enemy at a time, and are in unlimited energy supply.
* Photon Torpedoes require time to travel, can destroy many enemies, and are in LIMITED supply. Displayed in the Status screen, Photon Torpedo supply appears as a red bar (squares).
For high speed, the player may depress the WARP button. While this button is held down the Enterprise moves very quickly and cannot be damaged in any way by anything. A blue bar in the Status screen displays the amount of Warp energy available, and shrinks as the Warp button is held down.
The Enterprise is shrouded by an automatic Shield, which protects the Enterprise from enemy fire and collisions. The Shields are displayed in the Status screen as green line segments (a bar). Once the strength of the Shields is depleted, the ship can sustain damage. When damaged, the Enterprise looses ship functions in the following order : Shields, Photon Torpedoes, Warp Drive. If all of these are damaged, the next hit will destroy the Enterprise and end the game.
In order to repair this damage the player may choose to dock with a Starbase. Docking is accomplished by merely flying into a Starbase. The DOCKED message appears, all damage is repaired, and a Shield unit, Photon Torpedo, and some Warp time are added to the ship?s supplies. Although only four of each supply unit is displayed at any one time, 255 can be collected.
The primary enemy is the Klingon Battle Cruiser, which comes in three colors :
* Red Klingon - ignores the Enterprise and sets out to destroy a Starbase, after which the Klingon turns purple.
* Purple Klingon - ignores Starbases and attempts to destroy the Enterprise by firing plasma energy balls. Purple Klingons will stop a certain distance away while attacking so as not to risk collision. After a certain period of time (depending on round), purple Klingons turn white.
* White Klingons - sometimes known as Maniac Klingons, these Klingons will move VERY QUICKLY and attempt to ram the Enterprise.
Anti-Matter Saucers appear randomly and move about the screen in a confusing fashion. These saucers can be destroyed only with Phasers. If the saucer collides with the Enterprise, it will attach itself, drain your ships Warp energy, then leave quickly.
After a number of rounds, the player advances to the Nomad round. In this sequence Nomad zips about the screen depositing dangerous mines. The mines cause chain reactions which should be avoided. Nomad can only be destroyed with Phasers. Once Nomad has delivered its total load of 30 mines, it waits for the last mine to detonate, leaves the screen, and ends the round.
Every 10,000 to 40,000 points (operator selectable) the player is awarded a bonus Shield unit, Photon Torpedo and Warp time unit. The two player game is played with players alternating with each complete round. Whenever a player is eliminated, the other player continues and finishes the game.
