Welcome to WIZARD OF WOR! In this magical game, you are a worrior descending into deep dungeon mazes, battling invisible monsters, cacodemons, and maybe even the Wizard of Wor himself! Be of good cheer, worrior, for herein lie many of the secrets of the Wizard.
Wizard of Wor is a game for 1 or 2 players. When the 2-player mode is selected, both players control their worriors at the same time. Teamwork in the 2-player mode is very important (but not necessary to play).
The object of Wizard of Wor is to descend as far into the dungeons of Wor as possible, killing monsters, beating the Wizard, and earning as high a score as you can. The game ends when all the players' worriors have been destroyed.
At the start of the game, you are placed in dungeon one. It contains six blue Burwors. Using the joystick and fire button, maneuver your worrior around the maze and shoot them. As you shoot the last Burwor, a yellow Garwor will come out. Garwors and red Thorwors will turn invisible. The radar will show the positions of the invisible monsters. Invisible Garwors and Thorwors will become visible when they enter the same corridor that a worrior is in. As time goes by, the monsters speed up. The longer it takes before you shoot them, the faster they go. When you have destroyed the Thorwor, the first dungeon ends.
In the 2nd dungeon, a different maze is randomly selected. Once again, 6 Burwors are placed here. More Garwors and Thorwors will appear this time, however. When the last Thorwor has been shot, Worluk will come out and try to escape out one of the side doors. If you shoot him before he escapes, all point values will be doubled in the next dungeon. After Worluk has been shot or has escaped, the Wizard of Wor may then appear. He teleports closer and closer, continuously firing lightning bolts. He continues to do so until either one worrior has been destroyed, or the Wizard has been shot.
After dungeon 3 or 4, a bonus player is awarded (option switch selectable). You must then face the Arena. This is the toughest of the lower level dungeons. The Worlord dungeons begin at dungeon eight. They are very difficult to survive. At dungeon thirteen, another bonus player is awarded, and you must try to win your way through The Pit. The ultimate goal of Wizard of Wor is to survive The Pit without losing any worriors.
In a 1-player game, the other worrior (blue) is your friend. He will not shoot you unless you come between him and a monster, then he will try to shoot the monster, and you could be hit by his shot.
In a 2-player game, both players play at the same time. They do not take turns. The two players may elect to shoot each other. But, if you wish to survive for long, you must use teamwork!
And now worrior, go forth and do battle with the Wizard of Wor!
