The first of many sequels to The Legend Of Zelda. Link has just turned 16, and discovers a strange birthmark on his hand. With the help of Impa, Zelda's nursemaid, Link discovers this mark is the key to unlock a secret room where Princess Zelda lies sleeping. When young, Princess Zelda was given knowledge of the Triforce of power which was used to rule the kingdom of Hyrule, but when a magician unsuccessfully tried to find out about the Triforce from Zelda, he put her into an eternal sleep. In his grief, the prince placed Zelda in this room hoping she may wake some day. He ordered all female children in the royal household to be named Zelda from this point on, so the tragedy would not be forgotten. Now, to bring Princess Zelda back, Link must locate all the pieces of the Triforce which have been hidden throughout the land.

Each piece of the Triforce is in a temple guarded by a powerful monster which must be defeated. At the same time, Ganon's underlings are still around and gaining in strength and number. It is said Ganon could be brought back to life by sprinkling the blood of the one who defeated him on the ashes (Link!). 

Zelda II: The Adventure of Link is a hybrid action/RPG game. The gameplay alternates between a top-down view (when traveling the land) and side-scrolling perspectives (when fighting, in a temple, or town). In the top-down view, Link cannot do much except for walking: in the side-scrolling action view, however, he can fight, cast spells, collect items and talk to people. 

When Link encounters an enemy in the wilderness, or enters a location which contains enemies, he can fight them with his sword. If Link is at full health, his sword can be thrown, but when he is hurt, he can only fight in melee. Link has a shield which protects him against some of the enemies' attacks if they strike the shield. Touching an enemy or getting hit by their attacks decreases Link's health. Link can replenish his health completely by encountering a fairy in the wilderness, or by using the services of a healer in a town. 

Link also has a "magic" meter. He can cast spells (as long as he learned them first) if he has some magic left. Spells cost a various amount of magic. They have various effects: they cure Link, allow him to jump very high, shoot fireballs etc. Magic can be refilled by collecting blue and red jars sometimes left behind by enemies. 

When Link slays an enemy, it might leave behind an item, or give Link some experience. When Link gains enough experience, he gains a level, which allows him to buy weapon power/maximum magic/maximum health upgrades for his experience points, or he can decide not to buy anything and stockpile his experience points for later use. 

There are some items to be found that are necessary to get past certain points in the game. The Adventure of Link features a battery backup so games can be saved without the need for passwords.
