My Little Pony: Crystal Princess - The Runaway Rainbow is a game in the My Little Pony franchise based on the 2006 direct-to-video animated film of the same name. In Rarity's Adventure, the main game mode, Cheerilee teaches the young unicorn pony Rarity in the magical city Unicornia how to make a rainbow. In celebration of the first rainbow of the season. Rarity will become the rainbow princess and she needs to learn how to use her magical wand to create it.  Rarity can freely move around the city and talk to other pones. She plays mini-games and gets to help them in various ways. She can play with a caterpillar, participate in a bubble fight to clean a carriage, do a game of 'Simon Says' with her wand, collect rainbow ribbons and flags and colour drawings. At the end of the first chapter she accidentally uses the wand in a wrong way and ends up in a new location called Breezie Blossom. Rarity has to perform similar tasks again for her there, such as locating characters, collecting pairs of pajamas, locate hidden breezies in a game of 'Whac-A-Mole' and catch rainbowberries.  In the third chapter Rarity and the breezies travel to Ponyville while the other ponies at Unicornia decide to look for her. Rarity gets to choose between two playable ponies to help her locate additional rainbowberries after she ate all of them. With different ingredients sundaes need to be recreated as shown through an example in the top left corner of the screen. In another mission various components to create kites need to be gathered and identical kites need to be matched in a game of Concentration. Rarity also gets to skate, avoiding and jumping over objects on a course. It also contains a full pinball table called Pinkie Pie Pinball.  In the fourth chapter she can create and colour custom drawings. Rarity drops down a river and needs to be picked up along with several other ponies using a vine. Players also have to help her create images in the sky by connecting stars and she gets to ride a flying carriage, avoiding clouds that slow her down, to reach a finish line before time runs out. In the fifth and final chapter the rainbow celebration finally takes place. There are five chapters and fourteen mini-games in total.  From the main menu the different mini-games can be played right away. During the main Rarity's Adventure mode jewels can be earned by performing well. These unlock items in the Princess Gallery, also available from the main menu.
