In this boxing game, you control Muhammad Ali where you have to fight a series of opponents in an attempt to become the heavyweight champion of the world.  The game has two modes, Single Fight and World Title Trial. Single Fight is the standard exhibition mode where you select from any of the 31 boxers available as your opponent and select the maximum number of rounds to fight between three and eight.  World Title Trial is your career mode where you have to defeat boxers to earn money and move up the rankings. You begin at rank 29 and can select from the three boxers ranked below you for your first fight. You fight for a purse and winning the fight earns you that purse which you can then use to negotiate a fight against a higher ranked boxer. This mode also gives you the option of selecting the number of rounds per fight, again between three and eight.  If you choose to have training turned on you can select the training method for Ali in the allocated number of weeks before his next fight. You have four attributes – power, speed, accuracy and stamina. You have five training regimes to choose from – small punch bag, skipping rope, heavy punch bag, weight training and road work training. You also have a sparring option which allows you to choose your combo punches for your fight.  In the fight itself, the boxers compete in two-minute rounds. The boxers have a power meter which goes down as they get fatigued. You can punch with either the A or B button and punches deplete the health meter which is an interactive silhouette boxer. The health meter is black at full health and turns white with each punch landed, you will need to land a series of punches to weaken your opponent as the meter rises again with rest. If the meter is fully white you can finish off your opponent with a combo as the word flashes on the screen. Successfully initiating your combo knocks the opponent down in which if he does not answer to the referee’s ten count then the fight is over. The fight can also be won by a TKO (3 knock downs in a single round) or a points decision where instead of the standard 10 points per round system, the game uses a point system where a point is scored for every punch landed during the round as well as 25 points for a knock down and the one with the most points wins the fight. At the end of a training session the game gives you a password containing 16 characters of letters, numbers and symbols which you use to continue your game by selecting Continue Old Game in the main menu.
