This is a version of Scrabble for the Atari 2600.The letters on the top row are shuffled and then you use them to make words on the bottom row. If the bottom row shows all spaces in pink or red, then the points for the word are doubled or tripled, respectively. If there is a light blue or blue line under a space, then the points for that letter are doubled or tripled, respectively. After you create a word, move down to the E button and press the red joystick button one time. This stops the timer so you can confirm the word is acceptable. If the word is acceptable, press the button again to collect points and go to the next round. If not, move to the P button to pass on the word and go to the next round. In a two player game, after you press the E button once, the other player then must press the button again to enter the word. Play continues until you have 14 rounds in a one player game or 7 each in a two player game.Difficulty switchesUse the left switch to set the number of players; B for one player, A for two.Game variationsThere are five games, each with five skill levels.The skill levels differ by the amount of time you have to make words.Skill levels for one player games:Skill level 1=unlimited time (no clock)Skill level 2=132 secondsSkill level 3=39 secondsSkill level 4=26 secondsSkill level 5=random timesFor two player games, the times are half of what they are in one player.The games are:Game 1 (Billboard): After each round, all the letters are reshuffled, so you get a whole new set of seven letters. Any letters that were not used go back into the mix.Game 2 (Skill Builder): Only the letters you used to make the word are replaced. Any unused letters stay on the top spaces.Game 3 (Times Up): You are given seven letters only. You must use these seven to make as many words as you can.Game 4 (Encore): The letters on the top row all shift to the right, with the last letter disappearing and a new letter plopping into the first spot. You must grab you letters and place them quickly. Any letters the you don't use will reappear randomly again.Game 5 (Over the Edge): Same as game 4 but letters that disappear never return.
