Ahh Grover... The scary Muppet.  Well maybe it's just me, because some Atari executive saw it fit to give this furry blue demon his own 2600 game.  Originally the star of Grover's Egg Catch (that's right, Grover's Egg Catch!), the starring role was quickly given to Big Bird after someone at Atari woke up and realized that Grover had nothing to do with eggs and giant yellow bird might be a better choice (then again maybe Grover does lay eggs?).  After being booted from the egg catch, Grover was given the music maker gig (displacing one very upset monkey).  For you see Grover's Music Maker was originally called Monkey Music and featured a dancing monkey instead of the jumping blue hairball you see today.  What does Grover have to do with music you ask?  About as much as a dancing monkey does...
Grover's Music Maker was an attempt by Atari to introduce children to the music through some well known (and some not so well known) children's tunes and the dancing antics of their pal Grover (evil!).  Selecting one of the twenty letters (A - T), will cause Grover to start jumping around like maniac while some music is played in the background.  It may just be me, but for some reason Grover looks like he's in pain as he's jumping around on the stage.  Perhaps he's being shocked by the 2600 and those dancing antics are just involuntary muscle twitches?  Then again maybe not...
Children can also make Grover flail about in pain... err... I mean dance to his own beat (hehe) by pressing the various buttons on the Kids Controller.  I suppose children would have gotten a kick out of this, but adults would have quickly learned where the volume knob on the TV was.  The best part of the game is playing "Name That Tune" with the various snippets of music each letter produces.  Some of these tunes are fairly obvious (Twinkle Twinkle Little Star, Go Tell Aunt Rhodie, My Hat Has Three Corners, etc.), while others range from the obscure (Sur le pont d'Avignon, Bobby Shafto), to the unknown.  To this day players still haven't been able to figure out exactly what all the tunes are.  This may be due to the fact that the prototype is unfinished (it's still missing U - Z) or just bad 2600 instrumentals.