If The A-Team looks familiar it's because it is little more than a graphic hack of another unreleased Atari game called Saboteur.  At one point it was thought these games were the same except for the graphics, but after analyzing them I've found some slight gameplay differences.  On this page I'll concentrate on the differences between Saboteur and The A-Team, for more information on the gameplay itself look at the Saboteur page.  

It's unknown why Atari decided to change Saboteur into The A-Team, but we assume it's because they wanted a game based on the then popular A-Team TV show and didn't want to wait for a new game to be developed.  At that point Saboteur was ready for release and Atari decided that they would attempt to integrate A-Team characters into a game that was already finished.  The results are interesting at best, confusing to say the least.
---A-Team, The (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Aquaventure is a bit of a mystery in the prototype world. It was never mentioned in any Atari press releases nor does it show up on any internal part lists.  Aquaventure seems to have popped out of the woodwork one day without any public fanfare nor any history behind its mysterious origins.  In any case, Aquaventure seems to be complete and ready for release, we can only speculate as to why it was shelved.
---Aquaventure (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Join your two favorite Gauls-Asterix and Obelix-on a fast-paced treasure hunt for Roman bounty. You'll need quick reflexes to grab the treasure while avoiding the deadly lyres of Cacofonix, the village bard. And watch out! The longer you play, the faster the lyres speed toward you!
---Asterix (USA)-------------------------------------------------------------
A battle to the last atom! The Atomic Arena is where all sorts of nasty, burly life-forms come to contest each other in the galaxy's deadliest game! Armed with a regulation Atom Smasher Blaster, you must blast unstable atomic particles past your opponent and out of the arena, but if one hits you, it degrades your very atomic structure, and the results aren't pretty. But remember, someone else has the same goal…'
---Atom Smasher (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
This is a first-person boxing game where you control the action.
You must face – and defeat – the cast and characters from the
hit Internet show: The Angry Video Game Nerd.
Yes, this is real. Shocking, huh? Well, stop reading this
introduction and read how to play. Otherwise, you will get your
ass handed to you. Honestly.

Boxing Rules:

• Each round is three minutes long.
• You CANNOT be saved by the bell.
• The three-knockdown rule is in effect. If you knock down your opponent three times in a round, you will win by technical knockout. Of course, you can also get TKO'd.
• After three rounds, the judges will decide the match.
• You can have one rematch per opponent.
---AVGN K.O. Boxing (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
This prototype is unplayable without the Mindlink controller. It’s an interesting idea, but it doesn’t quite work. In theory, the game is controlled by the player’s thoughts, and the Mindlink controller has several sensors that rest on the player’s head. It’s more likely that facial movements or biorhythmic feedback controlled the action on-screen.
---Bionic Breakthrough (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Boggle is an unreleased game for the Atari 2600 programmed by David Crane while he was still working at Atari. In Boggle, which is based on the popular word game of the same name, you must form as many words as possible from a random 4x4 grid of letters. The 2600 version of the game is for two players only, and each player can form a maximum of eight words (likely due to memory constraints of the 2600). The game appears to be fairly close to completion, although there are some glitches, such as all the letters not appearing in the grid right away when you start the game. Still, it's an interesting prototype and it's unknown why Boggle was not completed and released.
---Boggle (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
In Boulder Dash you take on the role of Rockford, who must collect a set number of diamonds in each level before progressing to the next. To do so, Rockford must dig through caves while avoiding falling boulders, contact with creatures that inhabit the caves, and other dangers.
---Boulder Dash (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
As luck would have it, Cabbage Patch Kids: Adventures in the Park is an impressive game, comparable in quality to many modern homebrew games. Cabbage Patch Kids is a side-scrolling game, similar to Pitfall! in this regard. The game consists of various screens that have different obstacles that must be overcome in order to proceed to the next screen. These include water-filled pits, bouncing balls, floating platforms, bees, and fires. You must complete ten screens on each level before a timer runs out. While traversing the screens you can also use trampolines to collect objects hidden in the trees for additional points.
---Cabbage Patch Kids - Adventures in the Park (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Homebrew game for the Atari 2600. You're an adventurer who has set out to find an ancient lost crown. Legend says the crown broken into three pieces and hidden in an old abandoned mine. 

June 4th

Turns out it was true My team opened up a small area of jungle where we knew there was a cave mouth. We weren't expecting the level of clearly Mayan decoration and architecture surrounding it. My people kept it quiet and have, thankfully, left it undisturbed until I can get there. Doesn't sound like anyone's been down there for a while, although there's evidence of some ill-advised attempts at gold mining by the Spanish to the north, but that's a few hundred years old.

I'll reach the site tomorrow. It's going to be a hell of a day.

You're an adventurer who has set out to find an ancient lost crown. Legend says the crown broken into three pieces and hidden in an old abandoned mine. The crown can only be reassembled in the ancient throne room, which is also hidden in the mine. As you enter the mine, the entrance caves in and you realize that you're stuck - now you have two things on your mind, finding the lost crown and finding a way out of the mine!
---Cave In (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
Your kingdom has been taken over by dragons and it's your duty as the Prince to get all the king's treasures back from those nasty dragons. Dragonfire is a simple game consisting of two screens. First you must traverse the drawbridge to the castle while dodging fireballs being shot towards you by the dragon. You must use quick reflexes to duck under the high ones and jump over the low ones. If you make it to the other side you'll find yourself in a a room full of treasures as well as a rather large dragon at the bottom of the screen. You must then gather the treasure as quickly as possible without falling victim to the dragon's fireballs. When you collect all the treasures an exit appears and you start over again, but with a higher difficulty than before. Get hit a total of seven times and the game is over.
---Cheese (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
The Spectravideo CompuMate SV010 was a home computer expansion for the Atari VCS / 2600 video game system released 6 January 1983 at the Winter CES( Winter Consumer Electronics) show in Las Vegas.
---CompuMate (USA)-------------------------------------------------------------
Computer Chess is a bit of an oddity among prototypes.  Once thought to simply be an early name for Video Chess, it turns out that Computer Chess is actually a slightly different and earlier version of the game.  While there aren’t a ton of differences (Chess is Chess), there are still enough to take notice.
The first (and most obvious) difference is that the coordinates for the chess board is displayed at the bottom of screen.  When a piece is selected, a picture of the piece and the coordinates of the move (in Chess notation of course) are displayed on screen.  This was probably removed from the final version (Video Chess) because most players aren't familiar with Chess notation and would be confused by all the numbers and letters all over the screen. 
Another major difference in Computer Chess is that there are no pawn promotions, the feature simply isn’t in the game yet.   If a pawn reaches the other side of the board it will simply be stuck there, unable to move.  Since Computer Chess also lacks the ‘setup mode’ found in Video Chess  the player can’t manually promote their pawns either.  The lack of pawn promotions really breaks some major strategies, making the game a bit tougher (although the computer can’t do it either so it evens out a bit).
Some other minor differences in Computer Chess are that it's played using the right joystick.  I can't offer any explanation for this except that it might be a programming bug.  Computer Chess also displays the difficulty level in the bottom left corner as C# (# being the difficulty level), Video Chess simply displays a large number at the top of the screen.  Computer Chess also makes some psychedelic sounds to go along with the flashing colors is shows when its thinking.  These were wisely taken out of Video Chess.
Interestingly, Computer Chess has a minor (but amusing) bug in it that was fixed in the final version.  If the player and computer follow a certain series of moves it is possible for the player to take control of the computer’s pawn.  One way to see this bug is to follow the following steps (special thanks to Nukey Shay for discovering this):
Most of the time, the AI (playing white) will begin by moving it's kings pawn forward 2 spaces.
Threaten this position by moving your queens pawn two
The AI will defend its pawn position by moving its queens knight
If you then move your kings bishop pawn to threaten the pawn from the opposite side, it responds by taking this one
The victorious pawn is now yours!
Did you ever notice how the chess pieces are made up of lines?  This is because of a special trick created by Bob Whitehead to display more than six sprites per line (which wouldn't have been enough for Chess).  This trick called "Venetian Blinds" allowed the 2600 to display up to eight sprites per row (instead of the normal six) by alternating them between two sets of scanlines (four on one set of scanlines, and four on the other).  It was the development of this trick that made a chess program on the 2600 possible.
So after much research it has been concluded that Computer Chess is really an early version of the program that eventually become Video Chess.  Interestingly Computer Chess was the first 2600 game to break the 4K barrier, originally weighing in at a hefty 6K!  Rather than go through the expense of releasing Computer Chess as a bankwitched cart, Atari decided to strip it down so it could fit into a regular 4K cart.  Unfortunately it appears that the chess notation was one of the features that had to be axed to make room for pawn promotions, setup mode, and other bug fixes.  Computer Chess is an interesting glimpse into the WIP changes that were made in the early days of 2600 programming.
It's a good thing that Atari was able to figure this out, as they were currently being sued for lack of a Chess cartridge!  You see Atari had never planned to do a chess program.  Everyone thought that Chess was well beyond the capabilities of the poor old 2600 so it was never planned.  However someone forgot to tell marketing this, and they stuck a big ol' Chess piece on the system box.  Apparently some man in Florida had bought the 2600 assuming that it would have a Chess program available (after all they advertised it right on the box!).  After realizing that Atari planned no such thing, he sued for false advertising.  So Atari could either cough up a Chess cartridge or pay out alot of money in lawsuits, and thus Computer Chess (later renamed Video Chess) was born.
---Computer Chess (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Confrontation is a strange strategy game which was never commercially released, but was available directly from Answer for a short time.  Only people who saw it on display at the 1983 CES show would have know about it and ordered it so while it's not technically a prototype, it's close enough.  Since Confrontation uses a programming trick to display so many objects on the screen at once, screenshots will only show one players pieces at a time.
---Confrontation (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
In the year 4014, the planet Earth and the planet Mars are locked in a century-long war. The Martians have devised a plan to destroy Earth using the power from their latest weapon: the Destructo-Bomb!! The Martian forces have managed to construct five bombs and have placed them deep inside the Martian Caverns, awaiting the final command from their leader to attack!!! Do you have the skill to navigate to the depths of the Martian caverns, active the Destructo-Bombs, and escape before they explode? Good Luck! 

Conquest of Mars is an accurate translation to the Atari 2600 of a popular Atari 8-bit computer title. Destroy the Martian rebellion by descending through the six caverns of Mars to activate the main energy reactors and escape to the surface before they blow up! Do you have the skill and quick reflexes required to descend into the Martian depths without being annihilated? And once you reach the bottom, can you make it out alive?
---Conquest of Mars (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
The game is a shooter. The player ship moves back and forth at the bottom of the screen and two rows of aliens move left and right across the top of the screen dropping bombs on the player. The aliens never stop coming out and over time they get faster. You get three ships and lose a life when a bomb impact.
---Cosmic Invaders (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
Cubis is a Tetris clone for the Atari 2600 created in 1997 by Eckhard Stolberg..
---Cubis (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
Donald has entered the Duckburg boat race and has taken to the sea with his speedboat. The objective is to steer the boat away from the obstacles along the way to the finish line and do so as fast as possible without losing pressure on the throttle. The game takes place across multiple screens which each presents its own obstacle patterns and challenges.
---Donald Duck's Speedboat (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
For years, the elusive mad scientist Dr. Enrique MacGuffin has been genetically engineering giant, radioactive mutant ducks. These ducks ar said to lay eggs of pure plutonium, which, the authorities say, Dr. MacGuffin is planning to use to create a doomsday device.

The authorities have finally located his secret lair, and have asked you, a renowned robotics inventor, to explore the lair and retieve the radioactive eggs before MacGuffin can use them in his doomsday device.

Naturally, you don't want to go in there yourself, since the place is teeming with radioactivity, but you know just who to send: your brand new robotic creation who is immune for the effects of the deadly radiation.

With your trusty robot's help, you can explore the lair and collect the plutonium eggs - but watch out: the mutant ducks are in there too, and they would love nothing more than to eat a metallic intruder. And no doubt Dr. MacGuffin had filled his many rooms with other deadly creatures and mechanical booby traps.
---Duck Attack (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
Dukes of Hazzard is a driving game with an overhead perspective, based on the popular television series of the same name. Players take on the role of the Duke boys driving the infamous "General Lee," while trying to avoid the police and rescue their sister Daisy from Boss Hogg. While development of this game was reportedly complete, it was not commercially released (and thus it never recieved a packaging design, official instruction manual, etc).
---Dukes of Hazzard (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Dumbo's Flying Circus was scheduled to be part of Atari's children's series (which included characters from Peanuts, Sesame Street, Disney, Muppets, and Garfield), but for one reason or another it never saw the light of day.  Atari advertised Dumbo in European Atari catalogs and even had a prototype box made, so the decision to shelve it must have been made quite late.  Even though Dumbo was developed as a children's game, the gameplay is quite difficult which may be the reason why it was never released.
---Dumbo's Flying Circus-------------------------------------------------------------
The princess has been kidnapped and you must rescue her! Kill the demon who commands the forces of darkness and his legions that dwell in the sprawling Dungeon beneath the mountaintop castle. To aid you in your quest you will be equipped with a sword, shield and the tattered remains of an old map left behind by other brave adventurers...those who have never returned from the Dungeon to tell their tales.

Dungeon is a turn-based assault in a dark and dangerous multi-level labyrinth! Along the way you'll encounter a variety of creatures hell-bent on your destruction. Aiding you in your quest is your spell book, chests containing magical items, and many wonders hidden in the dark depths of the dungeon. Can you rescue the princess and make it out alive, or will you be the dungeon's latest permanent resident?
---Dungeon (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
With a name like Elk Attack you'd probably expect a game involving herds of deadly rampaging elk right?  Well I hate disappoint you but there aren't herds of rampaging elk in this game, in fact this game has nothing to do with elks at all!  Elk Attack is really a port of the obscure Taito arcade game Electric Yo-Yo! Programmer Mark Hahn named the game Elk Attack as a joke, and probably would have changed the name had it been published.
Silly name aside, Elk Attack is really a Pac-Man type game but without a maze.  You control a Yo-Yo type machine, which must use its string to latch onto and destroy all the colored blocks on the screen.  Along the way you'll encounter strange worm like creatures (sorry no elks), which will attempt to disrupt your Yo-Yo.  To help you fight the worms there are power squares scattered around the board which when grabbed will render your Yo-Yo temporarily invincible and increase your speed.   However unlike Pac-Man touching a worm while invincible will only net you points, and will not destroy of them.  Because of this its best to just go about your business and clear the maze instead of hunting down the worms.
Since you use your string as your main means of propulsion, you must be careful as the screen becomes more and more open. For once you latch onto a block you can't let go until you touch it.  The most common way of dying is to accidentally latch onto a block on the other side of the screen and be sucked into a waiting enemy.  Clearing the board in a set pattern is the best way to avoid leaving large (and potentially dangerous) gaps between blocks.
While it's not a bad game, Elk Attack lacks one very important feature found in its arcade counterpart.  In Electric Yo-Yo there is an indestructible enemy which roams the screen making your life miserable.  Since you can't use the power squares to stun this enemy you must carefully plan on how avoid him.  It's this missing feature that makes the difficulty level in Elk Attack too easy.  In fact it's possible for even an average player to go 10 or 20 levels without dying.  Even though the enemies speed up as the levels progress they don't become much of a factor with large number of power squares available, it's the indestructible enemy that really adds the challenge to the game.  Atari made the right decision in not pick up Elk Attack for release in its current form.  With a few added gameplay elements Elk Attack would have been sure fire hit and a darn good clone of Electric Yo-Yo.  But for one reason or another this never happened, and the game was left in its current state.
---Elk Attack (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Mark VandeWettering says:

"I created an implementation of the German three rotor enigma machine, complete with plugboard that would run on an Atari 2600".
---Enigma Machine (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
Based on the horror movie of the same name, The Entity is an interesting action game by programmer Mark Klein who was also responsible for two other unreleased TCF games (Pick Up and Look Ahead).  Much like his previous game Pick Up, The Entity deals with a rather adult theme (the movie involved a young woman who was being raped by a ghost).  This could be why 20th Century Fox chose not to release the game.
Despite the name, the game itself really doesn't resemble the movie "The Entity" at all.  In the game your goal is to move the Entity to the highest plane of existence before your energy runs out (wasn't that called Nirvana?).  How are you to accomplish this goal you ask?  An exorcism? One of those cool Ghostbuster proton packs? A virgin sacrifice?  Nope.   All you have at your disposal are walls.  That's right, walls... 
The game is divided up into several rows (planes of existence) similar to Taz, but in The Entity you can only see three rows on the screen at one time.  Between each of the rows is a portal (hole) through which you must force the Entity.  As previously stated, this is accomplished through the careful placement of walls (ok so they're really probably some kind of electrostatic ectoplasmic energy barrier, but let's just call them walls for now).  The walls are moved by pressing the joystick left and right.  Once a wall lines up with the portal it will 'lock' into place, thus giving the bouncing Entity no where to go but up.
At this point you may be saying to yourself "Hey this sounds easy!" (you've got some nerve mister!), but there's a catch.  You see the Entity doesn't like to be pushed around, in fact that makes him angry (you don't want to see him when he's angry).  So every time you force the Entity through a portal it will begin to resist by bouncing faster and pushing back on the walls more and more.  Also keep in mind that the Entity isn't stupid, if it sees that you're about to trap him, he'll turn red and begin to go berserk.  Trapping the Entity once he turns red is a difficult task at best, so try not to tip him off by keeping the walls back until the last possible moment.
Thankfully you have a secret weapon up your sleeve... Liquid Helium! (the secret weapon of choice for Entity busters since 1983).  By tapping the fire button you can give the Entity a little squirt if the ol' He and slow him down for a bit.  Ironically it's the same Helium (located in a tank at the bottom of the screen) which ultimately proves to be your downfall.  If you are unsuccessful in forcing the Entity up through the planes of existence it will plunge into the tank and cost you 25% of your energy (but on the bright side the Entity will be slowed down for a short time).   Once you run out of energy the game is over.
So why was The Entity never released?  Several factors may have ultimately lead to The Entity's demise.  First and foremost was probably the games subject matter.  Not only was the movie a little 'adult', but it wasn't exactly a box office success (unlike other TCF game's such as Porky's or Fantastic Voyage).  Another factor may have been that The Entity's gameplay, which while fun, is not stellar by any means and grows boring after only a short time.  Whatever the reason for its cancellation, The Entity is an interesting look into the darker side of 20th Century Fox.
---Entity, The (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
On out last adventure many years ago, you slew the Evil Magician's three dragons and reclaimed the Enchanted Chalice, bringing peace to your kingdom. Now the Evil Magician has returned and stolen the chalice back, plunging your Kingdon into darkness. With his dragons dead, the Evil Magician and his apprentice now personally guard the chalice. Rumor has it that the Evil Magician has created a new creature even more powerful than his previous dragons to guard the chalice as a last defense.

As in your last adventure, the object of the game is to rescue the Enchanted Chalice and place it inside the Golden Castlewhere it belongs. Once again, this will not be an easy quest. the Evil Magician (red wizard) has the ability to cast fireballs. His apprentice (white wizard) has not yet learned this skill, but his touch is fatal.
---Evil Magician Returns (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
September 21, 1998: "The future of gaming can be summed up in two words -- Pong and Joust." ...with these prophetic words in the Usenet group rec.games.video.classic, "Otter" planted the seeds for the game you have before you now. Two of the greatest names in the history of video games have been brought together at last on your Atari 2600...FlapPing is an old school round of Pong (the original deathmatch!) combined with the famous "Flap" button of Joust. Pterry the Pterodactyl is here to keep things lively, and even the walls from the Atari Classic 'Warlords' makes a cameo appearance.
---FlapPing (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
1984 wasn't a good year for Atari or the video game industry in general.  In fact Atari was doing so poorly it was losing almost a million dollars a day!  Because of this Atari decided to stop developing games that it didn't think would sell in large numbers.  Once Atari was sold to the Tramiels they took a look at Garfield and decided they didn't want to pay the high royalties to Jim Davis and Steve Woita, so the game was canceled.  When Steve heard this he didn't take the news very well, but he had little time to protest as most of Atari's staff was laid off.  To make a long story short, Garfield was never finished.
While Atari may have thought Garfield had limited appeal, its obvious they didn't take the time to play the game.  Had they actually taken a close look at Garfield they would have discovered that while it may feature a well-known cartoon cat, it was actually a great side scrolling platform game (something the 2600 library was sorely lacking).  Even in its unfinished state, Garfield proves that the 2600 could do a multi-screened side scrolling game (and all this after only 2 months of programming!).  Too bad Atari didn't agree.

As you probably guessed, Garfield stars the lovable orange furball from the Sunday comics (no not Alf!).  Garfield is on a mission to find Nermal (wasn't he always trying to get AWAY from Nermal?), and to accomplish this mission he's going to have to cross five different action filled screens while keeping a looking out for the nefarious Odie!  The movement in Garfield is a bit strange, you don't move left or right with the joystick but by pressing the fire button to jump.  It takes a few tries to get the hang of it, but fits in well with the whole fence post idea.

The Burgers

This screen is fairly simple, Garfield must hop from fence post to fence post eating burgers.  The burgers fly back and forth across the screen and there seems to be an infinite number of them (note the Taz influence).  This screen may not be complete as you can eat the burgers just by standing still and don't need to jump at them, although if you do jump Garfield opens his mouth to eat it.  There's really no explaination for this screen, but according to Steve Woita this is sort of a dream sequence (this would explain the flying burgers).  After eating your fill of burgers you can jump off to the right to get to the next screen.

The Flowerpots

This screen is similar to the burger screen, but instead of somebody throwing burgers at you they're trying to clobber you with flowerpots!  Garfield must make is way along the fence (jumping as usual), but must duck when the flowerpot sails over head.  The flowerpots alternate flying in from the left and right so keep your eyes peeled for flying ferns...

The Roof

Now Garfield must make his way along the roof to get the other side of the yard.  But watch out becuase Odie is hiding in the chimney just waiting to pounce on poor unsuspecting Garfield.  This screen really doesn't make much sense, and probably would have had more to it had the game been finished.  Still, it shows off the Atari 2600's graphics abilities nicely.
---Garfield (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Another of the notorious adult-oriented Atari games developed and distributed (under the guise, strangely enough, as "Swedish Erotica") by the unlicensed game maker Mystique/Playaround. This was the only title where the publisher had to bow to censorship -- it declined to release the game in the US because of the fevor over the racial and violent implications Custer's Revenge.

This two-pack contains two variations on the 'classic' Custer's Revenge (renamed both because of the unfamiliarity of Custer to the European audience and the controversy over the original). Westward Ho is a remake, while General Re-Treat reverses the male and female roles. This time, the General having his revenge exacted back upon him -- that's Revenge, the name of the indian maiden of Custer's Revenge -- as he's tied to a totem pole. She'll brave the cannonfire of the corps and avoid the prickly cactus to force the General into Re-Treat!
---General Re-Treat (Europe)-------------------------------------------------------------
Ahh Grover... The scary Muppet.  Well maybe it's just me, because some Atari executive saw it fit to give this furry blue demon his own 2600 game.  Originally the star of Grover's Egg Catch (that's right, Grover's Egg Catch!), the starring role was quickly given to Big Bird after someone at Atari woke up and realized that Grover had nothing to do with eggs and giant yellow bird might be a better choice (then again maybe Grover does lay eggs?).  After being booted from the egg catch, Grover was given the music maker gig (displacing one very upset monkey).  For you see Grover's Music Maker was originally called Monkey Music and featured a dancing monkey instead of the jumping blue hairball you see today.  What does Grover have to do with music you ask?  About as much as a dancing monkey does...
Grover's Music Maker was an attempt by Atari to introduce children to the music through some well known (and some not so well known) children's tunes and the dancing antics of their pal Grover (evil!).  Selecting one of the twenty letters (A - T), will cause Grover to start jumping around like maniac while some music is played in the background.  It may just be me, but for some reason Grover looks like he's in pain as he's jumping around on the stage.  Perhaps he's being shocked by the 2600 and those dancing antics are just involuntary muscle twitches?  Then again maybe not...
Children can also make Grover flail about in pain... err... I mean dance to his own beat (hehe) by pressing the various buttons on the Kids Controller.  I suppose children would have gotten a kick out of this, but adults would have quickly learned where the volume knob on the TV was.  The best part of the game is playing "Name That Tune" with the various snippets of music each letter produces.  Some of these tunes are fairly obvious (Twinkle Twinkle Little Star, Go Tell Aunt Rhodie, My Hat Has Three Corners, etc.), while others range from the obscure (Sur le pont d'Avignon, Bobby Shafto), to the unknown.  To this day players still haven't been able to figure out exactly what all the tunes are.  This may be due to the fact that the prototype is unfinished (it's still missing U - Z) or just bad 2600 instrumentals.
---Grover's Music Maker (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
The year is 2552. Planet Earth still exists, but overpopulation has forces many of her former residents to colonize other worlds.

After contact with an outer colony was lost, a battlegroup was sent to investigate and was almost completely destroyed; only one badly damaged ship returned to tell of a seemingly unstoppable alien warship that had effortlessly annihilated their forces.

This was humankind's first encounter with a group of aliens they eventually came to know as the Covenant, a collective of alien races bent on wiping out humanity.

A desperate plan is set in motion: board a Covenant vessel and learn the location of the Covenant home world. but before the mission begins, Covenant forces strike and annihilate the attack force. The Covenant are now on Earth's doorstep. One ship escapes and makes a blind jump into deep space, hoping to lead the Covenant away from Earth.

The ship crashed on halo - an artificial ring world this is actually a weapon capable of destroying all life in the galaxy should it fall into the hands of the Covenant.

You are the Master Chief - all that remains of a classified military project to build a series of genetically enhanced super-soldiers. You are hunamity's last and best hope against the  Covenant - but you're woefully out-matched, and survival is not guaranteed.

Can you battle your way through the massive world that is halo, defeat the Covenant, and save humanity?
---Halo 2600 (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
Congratulations! Your mission was a success!
You, your helicopter and the other two helicopters of your squadron did very well and fought the enemy's army bravely. Your new objective sounds easy: escape the enemy territory and return to your home carrier.
Due to fuel shortage you have to take the shortest way which follows a river flowing through a long canyon heading directly to the sea. Unfortunately all your ammunition is depleted and so you have to avoid colliding with objects just by your flying skills! Good luck, pilots! 
The game starts up by displaying the titlescreen showing the game name and copyright information. This screen also tells you to press "Fire!" and start the game.
The game starts with the screen showing a canyon from above (top view) while you have to guide your helicopter and avoid colliding with the different obstacles. The display also shows the current level (left), the remaining amount of available helicopters (middle) and the distance to the goal of this level (right). Shown below is the frequency scanner - use it to dismantle the enemy's homing missiles by pressing the fire button while the scanner is at the correct range. A sound will indicate this range, too.
Your helicopter is able to fly at three levels of height. The dangerous objects in your way are fences, bars, homing missiles and columns. You either have to fly aside the columns, above the fences or above or below the bars. The missile can only be disarmed by the frequency scanner and your fire button.
If the three helicopters of your squadron are destroyed, you will come to the flashing Game Over screen.
There is no direct score in I Project, but your progress can be judged by the entered zone and remaining distance. The game consists of 31 zones to pass.
The game ends when all three helicopters of your team are destroyed or when you manage to finish the final zone.
---I Project (Europe) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
Talk about a game with convoluted history!  It was once thought that Immies and Aggies, along with Pizza Chef, Spinning Fireball, and A Mysterious Thief, were all original games developed by a PAL company called Suntek.  However after much research it has been determined that these are in fact original NTSC games released by two different companies called Zimag and Vidco, which may have been related somehow.  So why were these games developed for the NTSC market but never released?  Read on to find out.
Immies and Aggies is an odd shooting game that involves marbles (yes marbles).  For you see, Immies and Aggies are actually types of marbles (Aggies are agates, while Immies are glass imitations of agates), although from the game graphics you really can't tell.  In fact the graphics consist mostly of squares that appear to be randomly placed around the screen.  If you squint and stare really hard at the screen you can almost imagine that those squares are anything (marbles, alien bases, E.T. carts, etc.).  However the poor graphics really don't distract much from the poor gameplay.  There's a reason these things weren't released in the US...
The goal of the game appears to be to shoot the proper colored marble (square) with your little blaster.  On the top of the screen there is colored box that displays the current color, while several different shaped squares will appear in a random pattern in the middle of the screen.  As the colored box slowly disappears, you must shoot as many squares matching the current color as you can.  Many times there will not be any squares of the proper color, so you will have to wait a few seconds for more squares to appear.  Once the colored box completely disappears, it will be replaced by a new color which you will have to match.  
Occasionally as you shoot the squares strange little oval shaped enemies will roll towards you from one side of the screen (evil marbles?).  You can either choose to avoid them, or shoot them for points.  Since these enemies move so slowly and don't follow you, they are never a threat and are completely pointless.  In fact the only challenge in the entire game is to keep from falling asleep while playing this dud.  There are 14 different variations, but all they do is slightly speed up the time it takes for the color to change and the speed of the enemy marbles. 
Immies & Aggies seems more like an unfinished programming experiment rather than a complete game.  Not only does it lack any challenge, but it's absolutely no fun.  According to the Zimag catalog Immies & Aggies was planned for a spring of 1983 release, so apparently they thought this game had promise.  Although Zimag thankfully went under before they could release this game, Suntek decided to release this game as Spectracube Invasion to a poor unsuspecting European public.  There's a reason that some games never get released...
---Immies & Aggies (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
In a world wracked with internecine tanks-falling-out-of-the-sky-in-the-desert warfare, you are the elitest of the elite, the crackest of the crack, the creamiest of the crop. Inexplicably falling yet again onto a mountainside undamaged, you open the hatch of your main battle tank to look out on the serene desert landscape turned warzone. As the early morning sun glints off the barrel, you begin to wonder whether it's all worth it...whether it will ever end...and whether you will ever see your family again. Suddenly the stillness of the morning is shattered by a shrill whistling sound from high above which gets louder by the second. You swing the hatch shut, turn to your crewmates, and shout that all too familiar refrain: 'Incoming!'

'Incoming!' is an artillery shooting game that can be played between two players, or between one player and the computer. The game is played in rounds. Each round of the game features two tanks, one red and one green, squaring off against one another across a side-view 2-dimensional battlefield. The object is to destroy the other player's tank by lobbing shells across the board and hitting him. Players alternate firing at one another until one player hits the other, at which point that player wins the round and the next round begins. The first player to score a predetermined number of rounds wins the game.
---Incoming! (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
Although you wouldn’t know it by the look of it, Innerspace is actually the sequel to VentureVision’s Rescue Terra I.  In fact there were actually three games planned for the ‘Terra I Trilogy’, although only the first two were released.  The first game, called Rescue Terra I, had you traveling through an onslaught of aliens and asteroids to reach the planet of Terra I.  The second game, called Innerspace, has you travel through planetary tunnels to destroy the computer system and return control to the Terra I colonists.  The third and final game of the Trilogy, called Solar Defense, had you defending solar reactors around the earth while the Terra I colonists supplied them with Zenbar crystals.   Having all three games linked together with a storyline (as thin as it was) was a novel idea at the time, but sadly it was not to be.  While VentureVision was able to eke out their first game, they went under before the second or third could be released.   Imagic picked up Innerspace and released it as Laser Gates, but Solar Defense remained unreleased.  It is unknown if Solar Defense was completed, but it was at least far enough along to be playable and reviewed in Tilt magazine (May/June 1983 issue).
As mentioned above, the goal of Innerspace is to navigate your ship, the Dante Dart, through the caverns of Terra I and destroy the evil Crypic Computer.  Thankfully the Crypic Computer comes equipped with a convenient self-destruct mechanism (standard issue with all new evil super computers).  Unfortunately you will have to find the four failsafe detonators and destroy them before the self-destruct will activate (there’s always a catch).  Just to make matters more interesting, the computer will be throwing the entire might of Terra I’s defense force at you to prevent you from blowing it up.
Innerspace plays much like your standard side scrolling shmup.  As you make your way down the narrow tunnels of the planet, you will have to avoid walls, force fields, and a host of nasty ships and guns to make it to the end.  Ships come in various shapes, sizes, and behaviors.   Some will aim right for you, some will hang back taking shots at you, and some will try to get behind you.  Carefully maneuvering around the tunnel while taking well aimed shots at the ships is the key to winning this game.  Every now and then you will encounter moving force fields that have a tiny gap that you must maneuver through (which of course is also moving).  These moving force fields tend to be the most difficult obstacle to get past so take your time and be careful.  You will also encounter solid pillars that you must quickly blast through, but these tend to be more fun than dangerous (just be quick on the trigger or you’ll go splat!).
After a fair bit of time you will eventually reach one of the detonator mechanisms.  But before you start blasting away at the four protruding pins, step back and take heed.  The pins act like a combination lock, and there is only one correct sequence.  The first time you shoot the incorrect pin you will take some damage (quite a bit actually), but if you shoot the same wrong pin twice you will be destroyed!  Although the combination changes each game, there’s actually a trick to figuring it out as long as you’re good with binary numbers.  You’ll notice that the detonator has a number written on it that starts with 650_ , the correct combination is where the 1’s would be if the number was written in binary (starting from the top).  So if the detonator had 6503 written on it the combination would be the top two pins (3 = 0011 in binary).  If you’re not good with doing binary on the fly, you might want to write all the combinations down first as you don’t have much time to figure it out during the game.
At the bottom of the screen you’ll notice that there are four gauges: Score, Energy, Shields, and D-Time.  Score is self-explanatory, Energy is used up by your ship at a constant rate and must be replenished though energy pods found throughout the tunnel (don’t shoot them!).  Shields are diminished each time your hit a wall or get hit by an enemy shot, you start the game with 24 shield units and gain 6 units each time you score 10,000 points.  D-Time stands for Detonator Time and indicates how long you have until the detonator explodes, you must rach and destroy the detonator before this gauge expires! 
Although Rescue Terra I was considered a excellent game by 2600 standards, it was also noted for being very very difficult.  Not only does Innerspace manage to keep the same level of excellence, but it also manages to balance out the difficulty level so that the game is considered to be only very difficult rather than obscenely difficult.   Innerspace also has a bit more eye candy going for it in the form up rainbow colored force fields and colorful gauges.  It appears that Venturevision took what they learned from making Rescue Terra I and kicked it up a notch when creating Innerspace.  One has to wonder how amazing Solar Defense would have been had it been released.
Unfortunately Innerspace was never released, it appears that the collapsing market and industry downturn was too much for the tiny VentureVision to survive.  Thankfully the game was saved from the abyss by Imagic who decided to release it as Laser Gates (a reference to the moving force fields found in the game).  The game is exactly the same as Innerspace with the exception of a new name and copyright on the title screen.  Imagic also managed to program innerspace on the Atari 8-bit computers, but it was only released on a very rare compilation package called Imagic 1-2-3.  It is believed that the 8-bit version is an original Imagic port and not based on an unknown VentureVision 8-bit proto.
---Innerspace (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Here's an oddity, an unreleased 2600 game that's a port of an unreleased game (an unreleased 8-bit port exists as well).  It appears that although Sega developed Ixion for multiple platforms, they never released it for anything. For those who don't know, Ixion was a character from Greek mythology.  Ixion was the son the Phlegyas, descendent of Ares, and king of the Lapiths in Thessaly.  He is also the first mortal to shed kindred blood.  To punish him, Zeus bound Ixion to a winged wheel, which revolved in the air in all directions for all eternity.  What does a flying out of control wheel have to do with this game?  Read on to found out!
Ixion is an interesting game that doesn't seem to play like anything else (this is a refreshing change from all the 'me too' clone games in the 2600 library).  The goal of the game is to grab the five white squares scattered across the screen and spell the word Ixion before time runs out.  This is strangely reminiscent of many of the games put out by Universal, where the player would have spell out the word Bonus by grabbing letters that would appear around the screen.  The game screen consists of a giant grid of 110 squares on which your ship (which looks like a small tank) can travel.  Your ship cannot travel over areas where squares are missing.  At the start of each level only certain squares are visible, to get around easier you will need to reveal the missing squares.  
Reveling the missing squares is fairly simple, one simply has to move the brown sphere over an empty square.  The sphere is normally stationary, but it can be moved by shooting or ramming into it.  This sends the sphere bouncing around the screen, revealing squares and destroying enemies as it goes (hence the reference to Ixion's flying wheel).  After a short time of bouncing around the sphere will stop, requiring the player to move it again to reveal more squares.  Learning how to move the sphere to where you want to go is the key to mastering Ixion.
Also moving around the game grid are enemy drones, which will attempt to destroy your ship.  Unfortunately in addition to your ship their shots also destroy tiles, making your path much more difficult to traverse.  Thankfully the drones appear to be bound by the same rules about traveling over tiles that you are, so there is no unfair advantage.  Aside from using the sphere as a weapon, your ship is armed with a powerful cannon that shoots three bullets and can be aimed in eight directions and bounce off walls.  Enemy drones only take one shot to defeat, but will take out the tile they are on when they explode.  Also make sure you keep an eye on the timer (represented by a drone slowly moving towards your reserve ships).  If the drone makes it to your reserve ships before you've spelled Ixion, you will lose a life.  This timer starts to move at amazing speed on the higher levels, so don't delay in hunting down those letters!
After each level you will be treated to a small bonus round.  In these rounds the screen starts out without any tiles present, but there are two spheres.  Your goal on this screen is quickly reveal as many tiles as you can before the timer runs out.  Since there are no squares visible at the start of the round you will only be able to shoot the spheres at first, however as more squares are reveled you can start bumping the sphere to move it around even more.    If you are able to reveal all the squares (a very difficult feat) you will receive a large bonus.  There does not appear to be a penalty for not revealing all the squares (other than your wounded pride of course)
Although Ixion starts off easy, the higher rounds are very intense.  Each successive round starts off with less squares visible at the start, and they're usually missing from the worst possible places.  The sphere also will get placed in harder to reach locations, making it difficult to grab at the start of the round.  The enemies begin to shoot faster and more often, and will respawn much faster after they are destroyed.  In the higher rounds it is not uncommon to destroy more squares than you reveal, simply by destroying the rapidly respawning drones.
The graphics for Ixion are top notch, very impressive for the time in which is was created.  There is little, if any, flicker, and the sound effects get the job done (be sure to check out the warning sound that plays when running out of time, which appears to have been ripped off from Pac-Man).  The timer and score counter at the bottom of the screen look very similar to those used in Thunderground, this may mean that they had the same programmer or that the programmer simply borrowed code. 
It is unknown why Ixion was never released, but it was around this time that Sega Enterprises (the American arm of Sega) was sold to Bally.  After this sale, all of Sega's 2600 titles were Bally Midway arcade games (Tapper, Spy Hunter, and Up n Down).  It may have been felt that only well known arcade game would sell well enough in the overly competitive 2600 market, or perhaps Ixion simply got lost in the transition shuffle?  Whatever the reason, the 2600 world was robbed of one of one of the most original and entertaining titles to grace the console.
---Ixion (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
There is no one left. No attack fleet. No reinforcements. Just you and a handful of reserve ships. Enemy forces are threatening the Juno colony - Earth's last defense post. You must fend off wave after wave of enemy ships, skimming dangerously above the planet's force field. How long can you hold them off? You must persevere - whoever controls the Earth, must take Juno First!
This is the Final War - the Last Battle. Transcending time and space, the outcome determines the fate of our Earth!
---Juno First (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
K.O. Cruiser is a boxing game that harkens back to the arcade classic Punch-Out!! You control the transparent outline of a boxer, throwing punches and dodging blows from your opponents. You win by either knocking them out or going the distance and getting the judges' decision. If you get knocked down, you have only seconds to get back up before you're counted out.
---K.O. Cruiser (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
Kabobber is just one of those games that defies definition.  Looking a bit like a cross between Q*Bert and Frogger, Kabobber is a game as strange as its name.  Along with Thwocker, Kabobber is one of the lost Activision titles that people all knew existed somewhere, but it wasn't until 2001 that a prototype was finally confirmed to exist and the rom was released.     Kabobber was never advertised or mentioned in any Activision catalogs.
Since no instruction manual was ever made for Kabobber, we can only guess at what the storyline might have been.  Atari Age hosted a contest to come up with a story and manual that best fit the style of the game.  While we'll never know how close the winning entry was to the real storyline, it probably isn't too far off.  The story (such as it is) tells the tale of greedy Princess Buvsky who is attempting to devour the rainbow energy source of Kabobberland.  You must take your army of Buvskies and attempt to catch Princess Buvsky before she can reach the rainbow on the other side of the screen.  Along the way you must contend with the dangerous Kabobbers who are attempting to destroy your rescue party.
The basic gameplay of Kabobber is very simple; you must hop on the enemy before he hops on you.  To help you gang up on the enemy you are given command of an army of Buvskies.  Your Buvskies troops appear in each of the squares immediately surrounding your character.  When first summoned your Buvskies are only babies who must first conquer an enemy Kabobber to be promoted to full strength.  Baby Buvskies can only conquer the green Guvskies and are crushed by all other enemies, so you must protect them until they reach full strength.  You are given a limited number of baby Buvskies (displayed at the bottom of the screen), although you can gain extra Buvskies by conquering enemy troops (you are limited to nine reserve Buvskies).  Your army moves with you in a square formation, so the more troops you have on the screen the bigger the target you are.  However the more troops you have the more enemies you can crush, and you'll have a less chance of being totally annihilated by a rampaging enemy mob.
Along your journey across the Kabobberland Grid, you'll encounter various kinds of enemies.
Guvskies
Look just like your character except they're mean and green.  Guvskies are the basic foot soldiers of the Kabobber army.  Crush them, promote your baby Buvskies, and move on.
Cholos
Cholos look like a squat red man in a hat.  These little guys are a bit more erratic than the Guvskies, and can cause trouble if left to their own devices.  Take caution when attempting to hop them.
Struvskies
Struvskies are the mean red dudes with an attitude.  Not only are the stronger than your average Guvsky, but their lightning fast too!  Unless you're an experienced Kabobber, it's best to avoid Struvskies all together.
The Boot
The Boot is the absolute deadliest monster in all of Kabobber land.  These evil footwear demons can literally crush your Buvsky army in a blink of an eye!  To make matters worse, Boots are totally indestructible.  Avoid Boots at all costs or you'll find yourself a pile of goo under a shoe err... Boot.
Eggs
While Eggs themselves aren't dangerous; they have the potential to hatch into any of the four monster types.  Thankfully Eggs are stationary and can be quickly hopped upon to prevent hatching.  Take caution when approaching an Egg or you may find yourself face to face with a Boot (or something worse!).
Princess Buvsky
She's the pink gal you're trying to capture. Princess Buvsky looks just like your character, except she's hot pink. Grab Princess Buvsky as soon as you see her or she'll take off towards the rainbow again.
As the boards progress the enemies become faster and more numerous, and Princess Buvsky moves towards the rainbow faster.  The game ends once all your troops are lost or Princess Buvsky reaches the energy rainbow.  On the later levels it's all about strategy, simply jumping non-stop towards the Princess won't cut it anymore.  You must carefully decide which enemies are worth conquering, and which are best left alone.  Don't take too long however, as the Princess has her eye on the prize.
Kabobber is an excellent action/strategy game by Rex Bradford, the man responsible for Jedi Arena and Empire Strikes Back.   So why did Kabobber never get released?  According to Rex:
"What happened was that I "finished" the game in the standard 4K cartridge size, then Activision said they liked the game and would like me to expand it to an 8K cartridge and keep working on it.  I had basically run out of ideas for the game at that point, and resisted.  Anyway, I didn't feel like working on it more, and Activision didn't want to publish it as is (and was probably a little miffed at my attitude, though they never said so), and that was that."
It's a shame Activision didn't want to release Kabobber as is, because it's a lot of fun and didn't really need anymore retooling.  Kabobber is proof that sometimes it's best to release games as is instead of reworking them to death.
---Kabobber (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Kamikaze Saucers was a little known 2600 game that most people assumed was never even started.  However after the programmer gave the rom image to Atari Age to be distributed to the gaming community, the game proved to be very much real.  There was no mention of Kamikaze Saucers on any game list, but Syncro did take out full page ads for the game so they must have been close to releasing it.  All these things make this prototype all the more interesting, and makes one wonder what other games Syncro may have had in the works.
Kamikaze Saucers is your average shooter along the lines of Atlantis or Demon Attack.  You must shoot down the saucers that buzz across the screen using your oversized phallic looking ship.  If if fail to shoot the saucers down in a timely manner they will go Kamikaze on you big time!  Three large ships will come at you from the top of the screen, and if you can't destroy them before they crash into you you'll lose a life.
Thankfully there's a little more to Kamikaze Saucers than mindless shooting.  Notice the two meters on each side of the screen?  These are your ammo meters, the left meter is for shooting from the left and the right meter for shooting on the right.  For some reason, shooting from the center counts as shooting from the left (as far as ammo is concerned).  The shooting in KS is a bit like Atlantis, all your shots are aimed towards the center of the screen.  So shooting from the left or right will cause your shots to angle towards the center like shooting from Atlantis's side guns.  This takes a bit to get used to, but actually makes the game more challenging.
While Kamikaze Saucers isn't a bad game, it's nothing special.  In the "Me Too" clone environment that caused the great crash, Kamikaze Saucers would hardly get noticed.  Syncro made the right decision in staying out of the crumbling market, especially with lackluster games like this.  Kamikaze Saucers is just one of many victims of bad timing.
---Kamikaze Saucers (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Best described as a 3-D shooting gallery, Lasercade is an odd little game designed by Videa, the same company that created the similarly unreleased Meltdown for 20th Century Fox.  However while Meltdown had a "frenzied fun" factor going for it, there's something... lacking about Lasercade.
The first thing you're bound to notice upon booting Lasercade is how nice the graphics look.  It's hard to believe that the 2600 can do a 3/4th perspective shooting game, but Lasercade is the proof.  The goal of the game is to shoot all the targets in the upper section of the screen before time runs out (that's original).  However, while you can just start shooting willy nilly, you should probably take a second to look at the funny little targets in the middle section of the screen.
In the middle section of the the screen there are three rotating mirrors.  As you may have guessed, these mirrors can play havoc with your laser if you're not careful.  If you shoot a mirror while it is facing you, it will reflect the laser back at you and you will lose some time and be momentarily stunned.  However if you shoot the mirror while its back is to you, you can destroy it so it won't bother you until the next round.  While this may sound a bit complicated, it's often best just to ignore the mirrors and shoot at the targets themselves.  The number of mirrors can be controlled with the left difficulty switch.
The first round starts off with four targets for you to destroy (a light bulb, a dragon, a firecracker, and a lamp).  Each new round adds an extra target to hit, each one getting smaller and smaller. If you're successful in shooting all the targets in a given round, you will have a shot of some bonus points in the form of some fancy trick shooting.  Between each round a candelabra will appear with three flames, you must shoot one of the flames before the candles burn down.  Shooting the flame is more a matter of luck than skill, as the collision detection seems to be a bit off here.  As the rounds progress, you will be given less and less time to hit the targets.  If you manage to get through all 16 rounds you will be granted a large bonus.
While Lasercade isn't a bad game, it lacks that "something" that keeps you coming back for more.  Lasercade plays more like a fancy tech demo than a real game.  It's easy to see why 20th Century Fox opted for the graphically challenged, but infinitely more fun, Meltdown over Lasercade.  Still, Lasercade is a good choice if you want to see how nice 2600 graphics could be.
---Lasercade (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
After Atari acquired the rights to The Last Starfighter (convinced it would be a hit), they set to work on developing games based on the movie for the 5200, 400/800, and 2600.  The problem was that the game Alex played in the movie was impossible to reproduce on any home console of the time (in fact it was impossible to make a game like that at all in 1984, the one in the movie was just computer generated graphics), so programmers had to be creative in their approach.  Although both games were finished in time for the movie, Atari canceled The Last Starfighter due to the collapsing market.
Although the title suggests that this game is based on the 1984 movie, this prototype is actually an early version of the game that eventually became known as Solaris.  Although the 5200/400/800 game has some elements from the movie (including a nice shot of the Gunstar taking off), the 2600 version doesn't seem to resemble the movie in any way shape or form.  The Last Starfighter is actually almost identical to Solaris with some minor gameplay differences.  This is most likely because this game was never meant to be The Last Starfighter.  It has recently been discovered that Tod Frye was working on another version of TLSF, which never materialized.  Atari mostly likely saw Doug's wonderful new game (which was called Universe at that time) and decided that it would make a perfect fit for the Last Starfighter license.  This allowed Atari to get a TLSF game out the door quickly and freed up Tod to work on other higher priority projects.
- The title screen says "By Solaris" instead of "D. Neubauer".
- The copyright is 1984 instead of 1986.
- Your ship icon on the map is different.
- An arrow at the top of the map shows which direction to go (no more mazes).
- Each galaxy is numbered and displayed on the map screen (Scanner 1, Scanner 2, etc.).
- When a planet is under attack the Jump Counter is displayed at the top of the screen instead of the words "Scanner".  When the counter reaches zero the planet will be destroyed.
- There are no Cobra Ship squads on the main map.  Instead Cobra Ships appear randomly among other enemy types.
- There are no Red Zones when a planet is destroyed.
- The galaxy maps are different and only have one exit.
- There are explosion sounds on a planet when it is under attack.
- The warning sound when a planet is under attack is different.
- Your scanner will eventually repair itself when damaged.
- All corridors have multiple Ion Gates.
- Extra lives for rescuing Federation Citizens from Ko-Dan planets are awarded after you leave the current galaxy.
- The Cobra Ships use the same icon as people on the radar screen.
After being canceled in 1984, Atari decided to release The Last Starfighter as a new game for the relaunch of the 2600 in 1986.  The problem was that The Last Starfighter license was owned by MCA who was currently suing Warner (who owned Atari at the time) over lack of payment.  The solution? Rename the game and take out any references to TLSF.  The result?  Solaris.  It appears that Atari chose the new name based on the pseudonym Doug Neubauer used while writing TLSF (notice how it says By Solaris at the bottom of the screen).  Pseudonyms were nothing new for Doug, he wrote many 2600 games under the name Dallas North (why all the name games Doug?).  
Although we've been playing it for years and just didn't know it, The Last Starfighter is actually a pretty neat variation on Solaris.  The game is actually less complex as there is only one path to take to Rylos (err. Solaris), which can relieve some of the frustration players felt trying to get through the maze in Solaris.  Why Doug decided to make these changes are unknown, but Atari certainly could have released the game as is with only a minor name change.  The Last Starfighter is one of the lucky few games lost in the crash to actually be released, many others weren't as fortunate.
---Last Starfighter, The (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Lead is a fast paced Atari 2600 shooter that will keep you on your toes! There are four types of stages: "Fire", in which you must shoot enemies down. "Dodge" where you must dodge asteroids plummeting towards you. "Scramble" where you must avoid sentinels. And "Catch" stages where you must catch satellites. There are Smart Bombs and Power-ups you can capture to help you in your goal to stay alive!
---Lead (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
Based on the obscure 1981 Venture Line coin-op of the same name, Looping is one of the few prototypes that was known to be 'out there', but could not be located.  Thankfully Looping finally surfaced in 2003 and was released to the gaming community.  Amazingly the 2600 version of Looping plays very close to the Colecovision original with the requisite downgrade in graphics and sound of course.  However since Looping wasn't exactly a graphical masterpiece to begin with, the downgrade isn't really all that noticeable.
As the game title suggests, this game involves looping.  By looping I mean that your plane can only move in circles instead up the normal up, down ,left, right movement of most games.  By pushing up or down, your plane will begin to arch and start its loop (pushing left and right has no effect).  Normally this wouldn't be a huge problem, but your plane also moves very VERY fast, so it's quite easy to crash into the ground or another obstacle before your can complete your loop.  One interesting thing to note is that if your plane hits the top of the screen it will nosedive straight down.  While at first this may seem like a major inconvenience, it can be used to your advantage if you're crafty enough.
Looping is separated into two main sections: The Airfield and The Pipe Maze.  Each level begins on the runway of the airfield where you must start the game by successfully taking off (just pull down on the stick).  Assuming you didn't crash into the building at the end of the runway, you're now airborne and can begin to complete your mission.  There are three possible missions depending on what level you are playing: Destroy the Terminal, Destroy the Missile, or Destroy the Terminal and Missile.  To destroy your target, you're going to have to shoot through the blocks that make up the structure, which as you may have guessed is easier said than done.  Since your plane is constantly moving at high speed you can only take a few shots at your target before passing it over (or flying into it if you're not too talented).  Also making your life miserable are several balloons which bounce around the screen at alarming speed.  Although you can shoot these balloons you end up crashing into them more often than not.  If you succeed in destroying your target it will turn gray and the gate at the far end of the Airfield will open revealing the next section of the game.
The Pipe Maze (as the name suggests) is a huge maze of pipes which you must fly though in order to reach "The End".  The first room in this maze is fairly open, with several paths to take to the next room.  The main enemy in this room is a large green drop of ooze which constantly drips from one of the pipe opening.  This drop is fairly easy to avoid unless you take the top route which takes you right next to it (so try and take the bottom route).  The second room is very similar to the first, except it contains a "monster" which bounces around the top right corner.  Destroy the monster quickly and move to the final room.
The final room is one of the most difficult areas of the game.  To reach "The End" you must maneuver past three bouncing balls that are blocking the entrances to the small inner room.  Thankfully you can shoot these balls if it looks like you're about to crash, but lining up a shot can be difficult since you're still moving at a high rate of speed.  Once you make it inside you've got one last ball to deal with before you can reach the end of the level.  After touching the finish line you will begin a new and more difficult level.
It's unknown why Looping was never released since it seems to be finished and was even advertised.  One reason may be the high difficulty of the game which really takes away most of the fun.  Difficulty aside, Looping would have made an excellent addition to the 2600 library, and is one of the best Coleco games overall.  It appears that Coleco was finally learning after several titles of questionable quality (Donkey Kong anyone?).
---Looping (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
If there was ever a prototype I doubted the existence of it was LOTR.  After seeing the mock up screenshots in the final Parker Brothers catalog I was sure that little if any work had actually been done on this title.  Imagine my surprise when not only did the prototype turn up, but it was nearly complete!  How could one of the most sought after prototypes remain hidden for so many years?  Was it worth the wait?  Did it live up to expectations?  Would Tolkien fans have a reason to to keep on living? The answer to these questions is a resounding "sorta".
First lets make one thing clear, much like Star Wars: Episode I there was no way this prototype could have lived up to the hype.  The 20-year wait had made everybody's expectations of the game unreasonable, and poor old LOTR never had a chance.  While the game was good, it wasn't the ultimate fantasy game everyone had been hoping for.  Still, fans were happy with what they got and we're all better for having played it.  That being said, here's a complete and thorough rundown of the game.
The goal of the game is get from Hobbitton to Rivendell in as short a time as possible.  As you make your journey to Rivendell you will be pursued by the deadly Nazgul (Ring Wraith), who will attempt to kill you and take the ring.  Along the way you can meet various characters from the book, each character will help you in a special way.  Although you can simply run straight for Rivendell without exploring the rest of the game, it makes the game rather short and boring.  The game much more enjoyable if you attempt to follow the path laid out in the book.  This means stopping over in Bree, finding all the various hidden characters, and not using the ring.  While the game ending is exactly the same, your enjoyment level (and points) will increase dramatically.
You start the game in the town of Hobbitton with Sam Gamgee (the red guy).  The town scene is fairly well done with rows of houses and streets dotting the landscape.  All the towns in the game (Hobbitton, Bree, and Rivendell) look exactly the same, I guess the building codes of Middle Earth were pretty strict.  Your character is represented by a square (no room left for your graphics I guess), which you can move around the screen.  To leave Hobbitton simply move one screen any direction.  Going to the left will bring you to the road, and going either up or right will bring you to the forest.
This is probably a good time to explain how the health, time, and map system work.  Frodo can only take three hits before he croaks.  You can be wounded in one of two ways: getting hit by the Nazgul or waiting in the forest for more than four time units (I'll explain the time units in a second).  Unfortunately there is no way to heal yourself in the game (I guess aspirin hasn't been invented yet), but the various characters can protect you from the Nazgul (which I'll explain later).
Time works like this; there are 16 time units in one day.  Every second or so your character will blink, every four blinks is equal to one time unit.  You can tell what time of the day it is by watching the hills at the top of the screen.  Over the course of the day the sun will slowly set and the sky behind the hills will get darker and darker until night falls.  During the night the Nazgul become much more active and will speed up considerably and will be able to out run your character!  The longer the game lasts, the faster the Nazgul becomes, speeding up a bit each day (their initial speed can be changed with the left difficulty switch).  If you fail to reach Rivendell in a week (7 days), the game ends.
The map can be called up in the forest or town by pressing the fire button.  The large pluses on the map with the letters next to them are the three towns you can ender (the pluses are he actual towns).  H stands for Hobbitton (your starting point), B stands for Bree (where you pick up Strider), and R stands for Rivendell (your goal).  The world of Middle Earth is divided into a grid of 43 x 100 squares (screens).  If you reach the edge of a screen the world will turn black and you will not be able to proceed any further in that direction (no world wraparound I guess).
The fastest way to travel through Middle Earth is by following the road (which incidentally leads to Rivendell).  While traveling on the road you will move at your top speed and be able to outrun (or keep up with if its night) the Nazgul.  As you travel the road or open land you'll occasionally see bids fly overhead, these birds are spies for Sauron and help the Nazguls find your faster.  You can hide yourself from the birds by using the ring, but this will speed up the Nazguls so it's usually not worth it (unless you're sure the Nazguls are far away). Eventually the dreaded Nazgul will show up riding his black horse and making a rather nasty sound.  If the Nazgul appears your only defense is to run like hell towards the forest or let poor Sam take the hit for you (assuming you have him with you).  Veering off the path will bring you to open ground, which looks the same as the road screen but without the road (duh!).  You don't move quite as fast here, but you can still outrun the Nazgul in the daytime.  The brown roadside buildings are just there to slow you down and serve no purpose.  Moving through the open ground will eventually bring you to the forest.
The forests of Middle Earth are very dangerous.  While they allow you to hide from the Ring Wraith, they will wound your party if you stay in them too long.  If your character is wounded in the forest you'll hear a thunderclap and the screen will flash briefly (Frodo should know better than to take shelter from a thunder storm under a tree!)  Various characters can be found in the forests, so ignoring them completely is not a good option.  Just be careful and limit your time in the forest as much as possible.
If you keep heading north you will eventually come to the Loudwater River.  Since Hobbits can't swim, you'll have to find a bridge across it.  Luckily there are two bridges, which will take you to the other side.  The other side of the river is completely void of any features, but it really doesn't matter since you're close to winning the game at this point.  Simply make your way to Rivendell (consult the map) and you've won.  The ending is pretty cheesy and consists of the town screen flashing a few pretty colors.  Apparently there wasn't any room left over for a flashy ending. Oh well, at least the game HAS an ending unlike most 2600 games of this era.
So what about the ring?  While the ring is present in the game, it's not particularly useful other than for hiding from the birds (at the cost of speeding up the Nazguls) so it's best to only use it sparingly (just like in the book).  To use the ring, press the fire button while you're not a square (on the road, forest, or open land).  You'll know you have the ring on as your character will turn gray and a tune will play.
As I mentioned earlier, there are several characters you can pick up along your journey that can help make things easier.  Finding these characters are beneficial to your progress and will give you bonus points, but they are not necessary to win the game.
Sam Gamgee	
You start the game with Sam in Hobbitton. Sam's only purpose is to take a hit from the Nazgul for you like a human (err Hobbit) shield.  If the Nazgul touches you with Sam in your party you will not get hurt, but Sam will disappear.  You can find him again eight screens down from where you lost him (hiding from the Nazgul I guess).
Strider (Aragorn)	
You can find Strider in the town of Bree.  Once joining your party, he will help you to locate Gandalf.  An arrow will appear in the lower-right corner, which will point you in Gandalf's direction.
Gandalf	
While Gandalf is in your party your character will become white, and the Nazgul won't attack you.  However, he won't stay with your party very long, disappearing to a different part of Middle Earth.  The first time you find Gandalf, he will always be in the same location; after that, his future locations are based on where you are in Middle Earth when he leaves.
Tom Bombadil	
Tom allows your party to move at full speed through forests.  To find him, from the starting screen go 2 screens right, and go up to the 3rd forest.
Glorfindel	
Glorfindel allows your party to move at full speed across open land (very useful).  To find him, go to the end of the path (at the river), left 3 screens, and down 1.
All in all Lord of the Rings isn't bad, and is pretty complex for a 2600 game.  LOTR main problem is that it's boring!  All you do is run away from things until you reach Rivendell, there's no way to defend yourself.  This is an unfortunate side affect of basing a video game off a fantasy novel.  Having Frodo take out his sword and slice the Nazgul in two just wouldn't fit the character (but it would make for a much more exciting game).  LOTR was never released due to two different parties owning the rights to the characters.  Tolkien's son owned one set of the rights (to the books), and some company owned the other set of rights (movies, games, and action figures).  Parker Brothers was able to get permission from one group, but not the other so the project stalled.  It's just as well I suppose; the game is average and probably wouldn't have been a great seller.  Of course with the Lord of the Rings name on it, rabid fans probably would have gobbled it up anyway.  Either way, we can finally close the book on one of the greatest prototype mysteries of all time.
---Lord of the Rings, The - Journey to Rivendell (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
This 64K educational game came packed with the handheld MegaBoy (Atari 2600 clon).
---MegaBoy (Brazil)-------------------------------------------------------------
Not to be confused with the Atari game by the same name (which was released for the 7800), Meltdown was one of the final 20th Century Fox titles to be developed (Crash Dive was the absolute last) but was never released.  Why TCF decided to cancel Meltdown is unknown, but was most likely due to the collapsing video game market.  The decision to cancel the game must have been made at the last moment, as advertisements proudly boasting "Just Released" had already been printed.  Although Meltdown was displayed at the 1983 CES show, it was never seen again after the show closed.  Long thought lost, Meltdown surfaced in a resale shop in 2004 where by chance it was discovered by a passing collector.  
Meltdown is basically a game of hide and seek that place on a 4x4 grid of atoms.  At the start of each round you will see a rogue quark move about the reactor agitating the atoms.  Each time the quark touches one of atoms it will strip off some of the electrons and atom will shrink.  Once an atom has lost all it's electrons it will become unstable, if all the atoms destabilize the reactor will blow!
As the only remaining scientist, it is up to you to destroy the quarks and cool down the reactor.   To accomplish this you will have to make use of the only two tools at your disposal: an atomic stabilizer and Cadmium rods.  When the quark jumps to an atom you must line up the stabilizer (on the X axis), line up the Cadmium tube (on the Y axis), and quickly insert a Cadmium rod by pressing the fire button.  However as soon as you destroy one quark another one appears to take its place, so be vigilant and don't let your guard down for a moment. 
The core temperature is represented by a bar displayed at the top of the screen.  As the core cools down, the bar will grow longer, once the bar reaches the center of the screen the reactor will come back under control and the reactor will be saved (for the moment).  Each time you successfully save the reactor the action will get more intense; the number of quarks will multiply, they will begin to move faster, and the electrons will strip off more easily.  Once you reach the 10,000 mark, missing even one quark will likely blow the reactor.
Meltdown is an simple, yet amazingly addictive game.  It's interesting graphical style and progressive difficulty ramping makes Meltdown a game that's hard to put down.  It's a shame that 20th Century Fox never released Meltdown, as it is one of their better titles.  Like many TCF games, Meltdown was not developed by Fox themselves, but rather by a small company called Videa.  Videa eventually became Sente Technologies before being acquired by Bally and becoming the well known Bally Sente.
---Meltdown (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
This is the prototype version of Suicide Mission:

Suicide Mission is a game very similar to Asteroids.  It even manages to simulate low-quality vector graphics.  The objects look rough, but at least they move very smoothly.  The background story involves a microscopic submarine injected into a patient to destroy viruses.  That would explain why these asteroids look like shape-changing amoebas.  Your sub has substantial firepower, so you can shoot several shots at once (nice!).  Your sub controls are similar to those in Asteroids, but instead of hyperspace, you have a shield, and thrusting gives you no momentum.  Suicide Mission isn't very original, but it's a perfectly respectable shooter with some innovative graphics.
---Meteoroids (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
A game based on ESP?  Yes you heard me right, Mind Maze is the first (and only) Atari game to be based on the unproven (yet still popular) theory of ESP (Extra Sensory Perception).  It appears Atari was attempting to develop a sort of "Mind Reading" game for its new Mindlink controller.  So can the 2600 really read your thoughts?  Read on to find out...
Mind Maze is played somewhat like those old mind reading experiments where a scientist would hold up a card and ask a person to tell him what was on the other side.  Depending on the game selected, two to four cards appear on the screen each round.  The player then must try and guess the "correct" card by highlighting it (using the joystick) and pressing the fire button.  Unfortunately this is where the game begins to fall apart.  As you've probably guessed the theory of ESP is pretty far fetched, and the odds that the player can continually guess the correct card is slim.  So the player must simply sit there and randomly select cards until he by chance selects the correct one.  Predictably, this gets boring very fast...
After choosing a card all but one of the card pictures will disappear, and the computer will then highlight the "correct" card on the screen.  If the player is playing with the "Race" option, the game will show a solid blue screen and wait for the player to press a button before continuing to the next round.  This blue screen (which would have been spruced up for the final release) was probably there to allow the other player to get ready for his turn.  However since there is no two player option in this version, it doesn't really serve any point.  The player may also "pass" on the current set of cards by pressing the button without selecting a card.  This will cause a new set of cards to appear but it will still be the players turn.  There doesn't seem to be a limit on the number of times you can pass, but the game will not advance until the player picks a card.
The current score is shown at the bottom of the screen.  The left digit appears to be the players score, while the right digit counts the number of rounds played.  When the player reaches 20 points they win the game and are returned to the main screen.  By setting the right difficulty switch to B, the player can activate the "Cheat" mode.  When the cheat mode is activated selecting any card will score the player points (thus making the game completely pointless).  When the switch is put back in A position the scoring is set back to normal (as normal as scoring gets in this game anyway).  The cheat mode was probably put in by the programmer to help the ESP challenged debug the game.
As I mentioned earlier, Mind Maze appears to have several options which can be set for each game.  The main screen lists four options: # of Choices (2, 3, or 4), Race/No Race, Picture/Color, and Past/Future.  
# of Choices	
This sets the number of cards that appears on the screen.  The game defaults to two choices, but can be set as high as four.  Obviously the more choices there are, the harder the game becomes.
Race/No Race	
This option is for setting up a two player "race" game.  The only visible effect this option seems to have is activating or deactivating the blue screen.  Setting the game to 'Race' causes the solid blue screen to appear between rounds, while setting it to 'No Race' skips this screen.
Picture/Color	
This option affects the cards themselves.  Selecting 'Picture' will cause the game to display a series of beautiful pictures on the cards (everything from castles to goldfish), while selecting color will replace these pictures with a block of solid color.  When playing the 'Color' game, the picture actually hides behind one of the cards and is not visible to the player.  Selecting one of the cards will cause the picture to be revealed and the game will proceed to the next round (after awarding the appropriate points). 
Past/Future	
Out of all the options in the game, this one is the strangest.  As the name suggests this option affects the order in which players try to predict the cards (trying to guess the card that was just played or the card about to be played).  If set to Past the 2600 will select the "correct" card before the player chooses.  If the option is set to Future the 2600 will select the correct card as the player chooses.
Unlike more advanced games such as Motorodeo, the player cannot actually change the game options directly.  Instead the player must keep selecting game numbers until the combination of rules he wants is found.  Since there are four different options (one with three choices), there are a whopping 24 different game variations in this prototype (3*2*2*2).  Not too shabby for a game from 1984.
---Mind Maze (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
You see a board filled with mines and you don't know what fields exactly they occupy. By clicking on a field a number appears on it, which indicated how many mines are located on the nearest fields to it. Then you try and click on those fields you consider free of mines. If you make a mistake, the mine will explode and the game is over.
---Mine Sweeper (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
Mondo Pong was Piero Cavina's first programming effort on the Atari 2600 and is an evil variation on the game that started it all, Pong. In this version there are two balls and they each have a mind of their own! Sometimes the ball will double back at you after you hit it, other times it might just spin around in circles for a bit, keeping you on your toes as you wait for it to shoot off in some direction (hopefully not at you!) 

There are several game variations that allow you to select one or two players and a score limit of 15 or 45. There is also a normal vs. hard option, but that is not implemented in this version of Mondo Pong. 

This is an Alpha Version of Mondo Pong as it was never completed! Therefore, the game doesn't have the polish you might expect from a finished game and there may be a few bugs. Nevertheless, it's still an interesting concept and a hoot to play.
---Mondo Pong (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
Talk about a game with convoluted history!  It was once thought that A Mysterious Thief, along with Pizza Chef, Immies and Aggies  and Spinning Fireball, were all original games developed by a PAL company called Suntek.  However after much research it has been determined that these are in fact original NTSC games released by two different companies called Zimag and Vidco, which may have been related somehow.  While Suntek released A Mysterious Thief as Criminal Pursuit in Europe, it appears that the German company Quelle also got a hold of this game and released it as Eddy Langfinger, Der Museumsdieb.
As you might have guessed from the title, this game is about a mysterious thief (ie. you).  Your goal is to steal as many items from the building before the timer expires.  However to accomplish this task you're going to have to sneaky, because as we all know a clumsy thief is a dead thief.  Unfortunately you're not alone, killer guard dogs and the local security man have been alerted to your presence and are out to put and end to your one man crime spree.  
The building is separated into four floors each with five windows.  The top floor is the roof which has no windows or enemies, so you can hide up there if things get too hot for you.  To move between floors you will need to watch for an access hole (purple square) which appears somewhere on the floor above you.  There are permanent access holes on the left or right edges of the levels, and one that moves around randomly on each floor.  To use an access hole simply jump up and press up, and you will use your grappling hook to go through the hole.  However make sure there are no enemies close by when moving between levels and there is a slight pause after you move up in which you can't jump.
Each floor except for the top and the bottom have a guard dog which will run after you the moment you enter the level.  Guard dogs can be easily jumped over, but they are fast and will constantly race back and forth around the level.  Also making your life miserable is the security guard who moves through the windows on each floor. The guard is fast, and if he catches you as you move in front of a window you will lose a life, so it's best to wait until he moves to another floor.  Also appearing in the windows are various treasures, these are what you are after so make sure you grab them as soon as they appear.  If you manage to grab enough treasure a helicopter will appear, this is your cue to run to the roof and make your escape.  You will receive bonus points for each second on the timer remaining.
A Mysterious Thief isn't a bad game, but it doesn't have enough variety to keep it interesting.  You simply wander about grabbing treasure until the helicopter appears or you get caught.  The game is also rather tough and unforgiving, which combined with the general lack of gameplay doesn't make one want to come back for more.  Still, if the gameplay was fleshed out a little, Vidco may have had something here.
---Mysterious Thief, A (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
According to Atari, Peek-A-Boo was to be a revolutionary new video activity based on the familiar concepts of Peek-a-Boo and Hide 'n' Seek.  It was supposed to teach important concepts such as spatial orientation, direction, and memory that build a child's self-esteem and teach them to have fun on the 2600.  Yeah and I play Missile Command to help my hand-eye coordination...
Since Peek-A-Boo was intended for very young children the gameplay is very simple.  The main character of this game (a cat named Smart Seymour) moves in and out from behind a square.  Depending on the game selected the various elements of the game change slightly.  The square may be a single block, a rectangle, or four colored squares.  The cat may move far away from the square, or he may barely move half his body out.  The cat may move rapidly in and out from behind the square, or he may stay behind the square.  There are eight different types of games, each with a slightly different objective.
Before starting the game, the first thing you must do is turn the kids controller sideways to the left (so the top row read 3 6 9 #, middle row reads 2 5 8 0, and bottom row reads 1 4 7 *).  Once you have your controller in the proper position, you can actually attempt to play the game.  As mentioned above, there are eight different games:
Game 1: Single Block
This is the easiest of all the games.  All of the buttons work to move Seymour behind the block or out from behind it in various directions.
Game 2: Horizontal Bar
In this game the top row of buttons (369#) moves Seymour up, the bottom row (147*) moves Seymour down, and the middle row (2580) gives you an error sound.  As with all the other game variations, all of the buttons work to move Seymour behind the line.
Game 3: Vertical Bar
In this game buttons 123456 move Seymour to the left while buttons 789*0# move him to the right.
Game 4: Single Block
In this game buttons 6 and 9 move Seymour up, 4 and 7 move him down, 123 moves him left, and *0# moves him right.  Buttons 5 and 8 give the error sound.
Game 5: Four Blocks
In this game you have to press the right buttons depending on which block Seymour is behind.  Buttons 3 and 6 move him from behind the top left block, 9 and # move him from behind the top right block, 1 and 4 move him from behind the bottom left block, and 7 and * move him from behind bottom right block.  All of the middle buttons 2580 give the error sound.
Game 6: Four Colored Blocks
In this game the buttons are assigned different colors that correspond to the colored blocks.  Buttons 123 moves Seymour from behind the green block, 456 for the red block, 789 for the tan block, and 0*# moves Seymour from behind the blue block.
Games 7 & 8: 4 Blocks/4 Colored Blocks
These last two games are a bit of a mystery.  Hitting any button moves Seymour in various directions and only the two middle buttons (5 and 8) give the error sound when moving him out from behind the blocks.  Perhaps these games aren't finished or you need the mind of a child to understand them (you'd think I'd be qualified for that).
Obviously Atari was trying to branch out to all age groups, young and old with its new line of games.  Unfortunately with the collapsing market there was no room for niche games like Peek-A-Boo which probably wouldn't have sold in great numbers.  Still Peek-A-Boo holds a minor place in Atari history as being the first video game designed with a psychologist.
---Peek-A-Boo (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Fighter Pilots Needed!

Fight your way through day and night zones and shoot down the enemy bomber!

Use the joystick to move your fighter and the fire button to fire missiles. You only get one life, so avoid colliding with the enemy jets (you are safe at the lowest level of the screen)! In the night zone the enemy jets are only visible when the radar wave passes over them.

You start with approximately 60 seconds in the guided missile version and 90 seconds in the regular missile version. If you can reach and shoot down the bomber (which requires three hits), you'll be awarded with additional time (represented by a bar on the left of the screen). The enemy jets get more evasive and you receive less time to accomplish your goals with each successive round.

Arrrrr Matey! X Marks the Spot!

Can you find the treasure of the evil pirate "Up" Chuck LeDuc? Beware! His bony corpse wanders the island looking to protect it! Also watch out for snakes and the voodoo priestess!

Use the joystick to move around the island and use your fire button to fight/pick up items or use an item/enter or exit the hut. The window color represents what you are presently carrying (gray - nothing, blue - shovel, yellow - sword, green - shovel & sword). The color of the display in the window shows your health. You start with three hit points (3 - green, 2 - yellow, 1 - red). Snakes have 1 hit point each. The other enemies' hit points are randomly generated. There is a flower growing on the island that will restore your health, but it only works when it is fresh. Only use it when you actually need it!

The treasure is marked by an X and you must have the shovel in your possession to dig it up. Can you find the treasure before LeDuc finds you?
---Pirate Special Edition (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
Talk about a game with convoluted history!  It was once thought that Pizza Chef, along with Immies and Aggies, Spinning Fireball, and A Mysterious Thief, were all original games developed by a PAL company called Suntek.  However after much research it has been determined that these are in fact original NTSC games released by two different companies called Zimag and Vidco, which may have been related somehow.  Unlike the other three games however, Suntek never released Pizza Chef themselves.  Instead it was released in Brazil by a pirate outfit called CCE. 
As someone on AtariAge once put it, Pizza Chef is like playing SwordQuest with an Italian cook.  If that description alone doesn't scare you off, then you may just have the will power to endure this cruel and unusual torture device disguised as a video game.  Perhaps the reason that Pizza Chef was never released in the US was because it violated some international treaty on torture?  Either that or it was because the game just plain sucked!
At its heart, Pizza Chef a memory/guessing game combined with a poorly programmed action game.  The goal of the game is to correctly match up the proper kitchen utensil/food combination with the correct cooking pot before time expires.  The overall concept has promise, but the execution is downright terrible.  The game is separated into five different rooms: the dining room, the refrigerator, the kitchen, the storage room, and the trash room.  Each room has it's own unique purpose and goal.
The Dining Room
The dining room is really just a 'connector' to the other four rooms.  Here you must avoid clumsy waiters who are attempting to serve food to non-existent customers (I guess even they didn't want to stick around for this game).  In the four corners are colored squares which represent the four other rooms.  The blue square goes to the refrigerator, the purple square goes to the kitchen, the brown square goes to the storage room, while the green square goes to the trash room.  Simply move your chef into the square that represents the room you wish to go to and you're off.  If a waiter touches your chef you will lose some precious time.
The Storage Room
The goal of this room is to pick up a kitchen utensil (a cup, cleaver, or bowl).  In this room you must avoid giant rats while you try and pick up an item (shouldn't the health department have shut this place down already?).  To pick up an item simply touch it and press the button and it will be added to your inventory (displayed at the bottom of the screen).  If a rat touches you, you will lose some time and your item (not to mention probably get some disease).  Once you have your cooking utensil, you can exit the room through the square at the top right of the screen.
The Refrigerator
In this room you must correctly match the cooking utensil you have picked up with the correct food item.  Each of the food items corresponds to one of the utensils, so you must keep trying to pick one up until you've made a match.  Each food item is color coded to match a specific pot so make sure you're picking up the correct one.  Once you've correctly guessed the proper combination, you will pick up the food item and you can exit this screen.  Occasionally the correct food item will not be there, and you will have to exit and re-enter the screen until it appears.  This room also contains strange blue patches, which I assume are ice or water.  As with the waiters and the rats, avoid them or you will lose time.
The Kitchen
Once you have your correct utensil/food combination your must make your way to the kitchen and try your luck.  The goal of this screen is to correctly guess which pot (represented by squares on the far right of the room) matches your utensil/food combination.  To do this, simply walk next to a square and press the fire button.  If you have correctly guessed the right pot, it will disappear and you can begin working on the next one.  Each pot is color coded to a specific food item (yellow for yellow, gray for gray, etc.), so make sure you've picked the proper pot before pressing the fire button.  If you chose the wrong pot you will be sent to the trash room to dispose of your food item.  Once you make all eight pots disappear, move over to the ovens on the left side of the screen and press the fire button to bake your pizza and win the game.  On the higher game variations there are more colors to match, making your task extra difficult.
The Trash Room
This is the most annoying room of them all, and is your punishment for guessing incorrectly.  Here you must make your way down the steps and throw your food out in the trash can at the bottom.  However you cannot simply walk down the steps in this game (no that would be too easy), instead you must move to the edge of the step and press the fire button to move down to the next step.  If you move too close to the edge and don't press the fire button, your chef will fall and land on his head (which is somewhat amusing).  After you've thrown out your food, you must walk back up the stairs in the same manner.  This screen is frustratingly difficult and seems only to be designed for torture.  Unfortunately you'll end up here a lot, as correctly guessing the proper pot on your first few tries is nearly impossible.
As I mentioned earlier, the overall concept behind Pizza Chef isn't bad, but the game is so poorly programmed it isn't very fun.  The controls are extremely poor and make an already bad game extremely frustrating (the stair screen is a perfect example).  While Pizza Chef's graphics aren't too bad (although there is alot of flicker), there are several areas in the game where one simply cannot tell what the graphics are supposed to represent (such as the large squares representing the ovens in the kitchen).  The in game 'music' is not only obnoxious, but it starts and stops with your characters movement.  This becomes annoying very quickly.
Overall Pizza Chef is a fine example of a good idea gone horribly wrong.  With a little work (ok alot of work), Pizza Chef might have been turned into a sellable game.  However in its current form, it's easy to see why Zimag didn't release this bomb on the US public.  However it appears that CCE wasn't as discriminating in their tastes and released it on a poor unsuspecting Brazilian public.
---Pizza Chef (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Talk about suffering from an identity crisis, for years Planet of the Ape had been misidentified as another 20th Century Fox prototype called Alligator People.  This was because the first PotA prototype was found in case labeled Alligator People, and since no screenshots of either game existed there was no reason to doubt the name on the label.  However after much research it was discovered (by yours truly) that this game was in fact really John Marvin's lost Planet of the Apes game.  So why was Planet of the Apes found in a case labeled Alligator People?  While no one knows for sure, it's assumed that this prototype was simply put into the wrong case (they probably just used an old case they had lying around).  

You play the role Col. George Taylor (who looks a bit like Pitfall Harry's long lost brother).  Your mission is to guide Col. Taylor through a series of screens as he avoids an army of apes and makes his way towards the Forbidden Zone.  There are three different kinds of apes in this game, and they all move in a straight line across the screen from right to left.

Chimpanzees - These little guys are harmless and can be touched without fear.  Shooting them is worth 3 points.

Orangutans - Orangutans are a bit bigger and a lot more dangerous than the Chimpanzees.  Touching them will get you captured and cost you 1 life unit.  Shooting a Chimpanzee is worth 200 points.  

Gorillas - Gorillas are the most dangerous of all the apes.  Not only can they capture you, but they can shoot at you as well.  Being shot will cost you 2 life units and shooting them is worth only 42 points!

At the top of the screen you see two counters, L and E.  L is your Life counter, you start with 60 life points and if you lose them all the game ends.  The E is your Escape counter, this is the number of times you can escape from the cage or pit.  If you run out of escapes your character will be trapped forever (effectively ending the game).
The Forest
You start out in a forest with several apes after you.  You can shoot at the apes by pressing the fire button, but since they just keep on coming its best to run for it.  There are also pits scattered throughout the forest, falling into one of these pits will cause your life to deplete rapidly.  Thankfully you can press the fire button to get out, but it will cost you one of your Escapes.  While you can run in any direction, only moving south will advance you towards your goal.  Moving south three times will bring you to the river.  

The River
Unlike other sections of this game, the river is only one screen wide.  Once again you can move any direction, but only going south will bring you towards the Forbidden Zone.  Touching the river isn't deadly, and you can move through without any trouble.  As you move through the river you'll notice that your guy appears to be flailing about with his arms in the air like he's drowning.  This may be because the river was going to be deadly and a bridge put across it, but since this is an early prototype we'll assume your guy is just a poor swimmer and move on.

The Village
If you touched an Orangutan or a Gorilla then you'll end up here.  You can escape from the cage by pressing the fire button, but it will cost you one of your Escapes.  You need to be extra careful in the village since the area is cramped, and there are lots of apes roaming around.  It's very easy to escape and be captured again right away.  You'll also want to escape from the cage as quickly as possible since the apes will constantly hit you while your trapped in the cage.  Moving south three times will bring you to the desert.

The Desert
After the river you'll encounter a large featureless desert which is the beginning of the Forbidden Zone.  There are more apes here than in any other part of the game, so you'll have to be on your guard.  Each desert board looks exactly alike except for a slight change in color, so its easy to get lost.  If you haven't been caught, moving south nine times will bring you to the caverns.  If you came by way of the village (you were captured), you only need to move south six times to reach the caves.

The Caverns
These have to be the funkiest looking caverns I've ever seen.  The cavern walls are rainbow colored making your journey extra trippy.  There are no apes to worry about in the caverns, but they are unfortunately a giant maze.  You'll also slowly loose life points as you traverse the caves at the rate of 1 point every 5 seconds.  There are two paths out of the caves: If you got captured at least once you to move south once, left once, and south again, but if you took the long way you need to move south once, left once, and south twice to reach your goal.  If you take the wrong path through the caves you'll end up back on the forest screen.  There are other paths out of the caves, but these work every time.

The Statue of Liberty
This is the goal you've been trying to reach.  It's a little hard to make out, but the picture is of the Statue of Liberty's torch and head.  Once you reach this the screen will begin to flash and you'll see the Statue of Liberty displayed while the background scrolls through all the boards you've crossed.  After this strange scene you'll gain 10 life points, 1 extra Escape, and 1200 bonus points.  You will now start back at the forest screen on the next higher difficulty level. 
Each new difficulty level has a few changes:
The apes will do an extra point of damage when they shoot you.
The apes move faster.
More apes appear on the screen at once and come out more often.
The bonus points for reaching the Statue of Liberty increases by 100.

It's obvious that Planet of the Apes still has some work to be done, but was finished enough to go through initial playtesting.  Before programmer John Marvin could finish it he left 20th Century Fox to go work for Epyx.  Since 20th Century Fox closed down its video game unit three months later Planet of the Apes was never completed.
---Planet of the Apes (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Reindeer Rescue is the "unlimited" release of the 2005 Holiday Cart. Reindeer Rescue is an original homebrew game written by Bob Montgomery, author of the captivating homebrew game Go Fish! In Reindeer Rescue you must help Santa rescue his lost reindeer in a journey that has you starting at the North Pole, racing through frozen tundra, ice caves, suburbia, and the big city! But Santa is not the athlete he used to be (1943 state champion in 400m)--he has grown a little...girthy...around the middle. His doesn't have quite the energy he used to, and if it drops too low he'll fail in his task! Along the way Santa will encounter many objects in the air and on the ground--some will help and some will hinder, so be careful!

Reindeer Rescue features in-game artwork by Nathan Strum (who has contributed to several recent homebrew projects), and included a beautifully illustrated label and manual by Dave Exton, whose brush graces many homebrew games.
---Reindeer Rescue (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
Rescue Bira Bira is a non-pornographic hack of the X-rated game Jungle Fever. The adult themes of the game have been replaced with elements from the Bira Bira mythos. Bira Bira is the god of classic video game collecting. He even has his own Official Bira Bira Webpage where you will learn everything about the cult of Bira Bira and then some.
Player and Enemy sprites have been changed to resemble characters from the world of Bira Bira.
---Rescue Bira Bira (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
According to the catalog entry: "Rocky and Bullwinkle must stop the evil Boris and Natasha from robbing a train full of priceless valuables. While Boris uses "Upsidasium" to float the valuables up to Natasha's waiting helicopter, Rocky must fly around and intercept them. When Rocky catches the valuables, he gives them to Bullwinkle for safe keeping."  Now I know the show didn't exactly make sense most of the time, but what heck were the guys over at Mattel smoking when they came up with this plot?
Twisted plot aside, Rocky & Bullwinkle is an interesting action game in which you must fly Rocky around the screen grabbing all the valuables before they float up to Natasha.  R&B sort of plays like Kaboom in reverse, and resembles Dumbo's Flying Circus in some respects.  Treasures can be snagged by flying Rocky over them and pressing the button, but since Rocky has puny little rodent muscles he can only hold two valuables at once.  While you can give any treasure to Bullwinkle for points, there is a special combination that is displayed on the screen, these are the two that actually count.  If you give these two treasures to Bullwinkle the screen will flash a bit and the timer will reset to 75, giving you more time to look for the next combination.  However there's another timer which constantly counts down no matter what you do.  When this timer runs out, the game ends.  This timer can be extended by selecting different game variations.
While you're zipping around the screen Natasha will occasionally drop something out of her plane which looks like a row of brown dots (bullets?) which will cause you to fly out of control for a few seconds if they hit out.  Other than Natasha there's really nothing in this game that can harm you, but since this was a kiddie game it wasn't exactly supposed to be violent.  Bullwinkle will occasionally drop a brown box of some sort which allows Rocky to carry six treasures instead of 2.  The left difficulty switch affects how many treasures you need to give to Bullwinkle (one or two), while the select button changes Rocky's control scheme.  Normally Rocky simply moves left, right, up, and down with the joystick as you would expect, but by pressing the select button you can put him in loop mode (indicated by the arrows at the bottom of the screen).  While Rocky is in loop mode pressing up or right will cause him to do a right loop (the long you hold it down the further he goes into the loop), and pressing left or down will cause Rocky to do a left loop.  While this control scheme may sound difficult, it becomes second nature after a few minutes.
As if the game wasn't strange enough, you can change the shapes into numbers and mathematical symbols by putting the TV Type switch to B&W.  This makes the game a bit more challenging because now the player must add or subtract the numbers they catch to equal the number Bullwinkle is displaying (ack! edutainment!).  In this mode the left difficulty switch controls the difficulty of the numbers (1 or 2 digits).  As with the treasure variation, you can give other numbers to Bullwinkle for points, but they don't count towards the solution.  This variation also lacks the 'storage box' that is present in the treasure variation.
The amazing thing about this prototype isn't the gameplay, it's the graphics.  It's simply amazing how many items are moving on the screen at one time with absolutely no flicker.  The train circles the bottom of the screen puffing smoke, Bullwinkle circles around the sky in his plane, Natasha moves back and forth in the helicopter (shooting at Rocky), and tons of valuables constantly move up the screen.   All of this action actually makes it the screen a bit busy, which has to be a first for any 2600 game.
The 2600 version of Rocky & Bullwinkle was actually designed before the Intellivision version, instead of the other way around as was usually the case.  Even though Rocky & Bullwinkle was complete and passed quality assurance, it was canceled for unknown reasons.  The Intellivision version was still on schedule to be released, but Mattel closed their doors before it could be completed.  The rom file for this game exists, but has never been publicly distributed due to copyright reasons.
---Rocky & Bullwinkle (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Rubik's Cube was nothing more than a re-release of an earlier Atari title "Atari Video Cube".  For some reason Atari felt the need to rename AVC as Rubik's Cube in an attempt to cash in on the popular craze that was sweeping the nation (I think I still have one somewhere).  In an attempt to further confuse people, Atari went and assigned a new part number to Rubik's Cube.  Name changes were nothing new for Atari, Basic Math had become Fun With Numbers, and Hunt n Score changed to A Game of Concentration, but in these two cases the games had retained the same part numbers.  Why change it on Rubik's Cube?

For many years it was assumed that Atari Video Cube and Rubik's Cube were the same game, just with a different name.  Recently it was discovered that Rubik's Cube as some minor differences: The background color is black instead of blue, and the cube colors are slightly different, purple has been replaced with yellow and blue is a bit darker.  This may be why it was assigned a new part number.

A digitized Rubik's Cube was an innovative idea, unfortunately it's just as boring as it's real world counterpart.  There are some things that just don't belong on a computer and this is one of them.
---Rubik's Cube 3-D (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Save Mary! was one of those 2600 revival titles that should have been released but was ultimately lost when Atari closed its Atari 2600 operations in 1990.  Save Mary! may have been in development longer than any other Atari 2600 game (over two years according to some sources).  One reason for this was Atari management constantly making changes to an already complex game, but another reason for the long development cycle was that programmer Tod Frye (of Pac-Man fame) may only have been working part time for Atari at the time and was also working on another unreleased 2600 game Shooting Arcade.  No matter what the reasons were it's a shame Save Mary! never got released, as it's a fun and highly original game.
The game title says it all, the goal of the game is to "Save Mary!".  Apparently Mary is a rather stupid girl who has somehow got herself stuck in a canyon that's rapidly filling with water (don't you hate it when that happens?)  Using only a crane and several odd shaped blocks you must build a platform for Mary to climb onto and make it high enough so you can hoist her out with the crane.  However your task is made more difficult due to the shape of the blocks (otherwise it wouldn't be much of a game would it?).  Not all the blocks come in nice little squares, each level has its own unique set of blocks which require clever planning to successfully link them together into a platform for Mary.
Further complicating things is that Mary appears to have started panicking and will run back and forth around the platform.  Remember that Mary is human (despite the gaping hole in her head!), and like most humans she doesn't take kindly to being squished with blocks (or having them swung into her).  Take special care when dropping blocks not to hit Mary or it's game over.  Also be sure to watch out for the low flying airplane that appears on the higher levels (yes I said Airplane).  If the plane hits your crane you will automatically drop the block you're carrying (possibly squishing Mary).
Thankfully there are several power-ups to help you accomplish your task.  Power-ups appear on the cliff sides and require that you pick them up and drop them off at the top of the canyon to activate them.  These power-ups do a wide variety of things:

The Plug	Stops the water from rising for a few seconds
Stop Sign	Makes Mary stop hopping around like an idiot (very handy)
Oil Can	Makes your crane move faster
Gold Block	Makes Mary invincible to being squished by falling blocks
Number	Gives you bonus points
Mary Figure	Gives you extra life

Save Mary! tends to get tough fast if you don't learn how to make the most of the power-ups, and can quickly get out of control if you don't have a plan for how to stack the blocks.  Strategy and planning are the keys to winning Save Mary!, but taking too long will result in one waterlogged corpse.  Overall Save Mary! is a Tetris variant with enough variety to keep gamers coming back for more.  Atari had a winner on its hands, as Save Mary! was a game that could have made Atari owners say Wow!  Unfortunately the age of the 2600 was over and brilliant efforts like this ultimately came too late to save the dying system.  On an interesting side note Nolan Bushnell himself is quoted as saying that Save Mary! was one of his favorite upcoming Atari 2600 releases.  One would think that with this kind of endorsement Save Mary! would have seen the light of day.
---Save Mary! (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Shooting Arcade is one of only two 2600 games to use the light gun (Sentinel was the other), but was never released.  This is a shame because Shooting Arcade is a creative light gun target game similar to the Point Blank series, and would have been unique among 2600 games.  Interestingly it appears that Shooting Arcade was not developed in the US, but rather in Mexico by a company called Heuristica.  How Axlon was invovled is unknown, but they may have simply sub-contracted the game out to Heuristica instead of doing it themselves.
Shooting Arcade is really made up of six different scenes that are put together in different orders depending on the level you've selected.  Each scene has its own unique theme, rules, and objective, making Shooting Arcade essentially six games in one.  Depending on which skill level you choose, the scene's attributes change to make it more or less difficult and the timer at the bottom of the screen counts down more or less quickly.  The status bar at the top of the screen shows the number of shots you have left, your current difficulty level, and the number of targets left.  You start each level out with a limited amount of ammunition depending on the difficulty level (40, 10, 5, 2, or 1).  You can continue from the last screen you completed an infinite amount of times by simply pressing the reset button.  This is a handy feature as the game get very hard at the later levels...
The six scenes are:
Colored Squares - Here you must shoot out all the colored squares before the timer runs out.  Starting on level 1 if you shoot and empty area where a square would be, a new square appear and you'll have to shoot it again!  On level 4 the squares will all disappear after you take your first shot, and you must memorize where all the squares were before you start.  The squares can briefly be seen when you take a shot which helps a bit, but they will reappear if you shoot the same area twice (as in level 1).  Every square you successfully hit will give you two extra shots.
Shooting Gallery - This scene is reminiscent of Imagic's Shooting Gallery cartridge.  Here you must shoot various carnival targets such as glass pipes, ducks, milk jugs, colored squares, and dinosaurs?  The targets in the center area move at a fair clip (depending on the difficulty level) and the pipes at the top can be very difficult to hit making this scene one of the toughest in the game.  Speaking of squares, you can shoot the colored squares at the bottom of the screen to gain extra ammo if you're in need.  To clear this scene you must successfully shoot all the targets.
The Birds - This scene is only accessible from level 2 onward.  In this scene you must shoot all the black and white birds before the timer runs out.  The birds move with a up and down motion, but follow a specific path around the screen so you can predict where they will move.  The background will change from black to white during the course of the scene effectively camouflaging the birds making them even more difficult to hit.  
Target Practice - This scene is one of the hardest to complete, since you begin with almost no ammo and the timer counts down lightning fast.  The concept of this scene is quite simple, you must shoot the various birds which fly around the screen.  Unlike the previous scene, these birds only appear one at a time and they move very very fast.  The birds will wrap around from one side of the screen to the other, so you can try and anticipate where it will appear next.  This scene is only accessible from level 3 onward.
The Demon - This scene is damn tough!  You must shoot a demon who randomly teleports around the screen.  Since this scene is only accessible on skill level 4 you start low on ammo and have almost no time.  If you shoot the demon enough times you will move onto the final scene.
The Unicycle - This is the final scene in the game.  Here you must shoot the unicycle out from underneath a poor clown and watch him fall to his death (ok so I made the last part up).  Since the unicycle is very thin and moves at a surprisingly fast clip, this scene is nearly impossible to beat.  Like the demon scene, this scene is only accessible on level 4.
So why wasn't shooting arcade released?  No one knows the true reason, but one possibility is the horrid controls.  The light gun aim is so off it makes it almost impossible to hit something by aiming directly at it.  If your lucky enough to actually hit something, it's almost a guarantee that you'll never be able to hit it again as the shooting code is so buggy that shooting at the same spot three times in a row will result in hitting three completely different areas of the screen.  This problem is really the death nail for Shooting Arcade, and ruins what could have otherwise been an awesome game.  Another possibility is the late date of the game (1989), by 1989 Nintendo was all but king, dominating everything in sight.  It's doubtful that an Atari 2600 target shooting game would have sold in great numbers, and is probably why Atari went with the more action oriented light gun game Sentinel.
If you can get over the flawed targeting system, Shooting Arcade can be really fun.  It's interesting to see just how much programmers could squeeze out of the ancient 2600.  A game like this really pushed the poor old 2600 to its limits, and proves that a good programmer can do wonders even on bad hardware.  Don't think of it as Shooting Arcade, think of it as Point Blank 0.5.
---Shooting Arcade (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Sinistar on the 2600?!?!  Yes you're reading this right; Sinistar on the Atari 2600. Somehow Atari managed to cram the complex arcade game Sinistar into an 8K 2600 cartridge, and the results were simply amazing!  After many arcade ports of questionable quality, Atari finally managed to get one right. Too bad they never released it...
For those of you who've never played Sinistar... Shame On You!  Sinistar is one of the most beloved (and difficult) arcade games of all time, combining fast action, mind numbing speed, and evil sounding voice synthesis into one explosive package.  The main object of the game is to destroy Sinistar, a giant metal creature bent on destroying the universe and whatever else that gets in its way.  Of course to destroy Sinistar you're going to need some firepower, and in Sinistar firepower comes in the form of Sinibombs.
To manufacture Sinibombs, your ship needs to harvest Sinisite crystals out of the planetoids.  To harvest the Sinisite simply move in close to a planetoid and start shooting away.  After a few shots tiny Sinisite crystals will appear which you must quickly grab before they float away.  Worker ships fly around the screen and harvest their own crystals to help build Sinistar, taking away valuable resources.  In the arcade Workers would also steal your crystals, but for some reason they seem to have turned over a new leaf and give the crime a rest in this version (be thankful!).  As you attempt to mine crystals, Warrior ships will zip around the screen attempting to blow your ship to kingdom come.
If you can successfully manage to hold off the Warrior ships long enough to harvest some crystals, your ship will eventually fill up with Sinibombs.  It's about this time Sinistar will usually start chasing your ship. If your lucky enough (and destroyed a large number of Workers), you can find Sinistar half built and defenseless, otherwise he'll be on the move and after you.  As Sinistar is chasing you, you must press the fire button to release the Sinibombs.  Sinibombs are the only thing that can harm Sinistar, so don't even bother trying to shoot him with your lasers.  Each Sinibomb will blast off a segment of Sinistar until he is completely destroyed (which takes 18 direct hits).  If you only manage to blow off a few segments the Workers will start repairing him, and he'll continue to chase you.  If you manage to totally destroy Sinistar you will be transported to the next sector where the action resumes at a harder difficulty level.
It's simply amazing how Atari managed to capture the action and excitement of Sinistar and condense it into the tiny 2600.  The graphics are excellent (by 2600 standards), and the controls are sharp and precise.  The only places Atari had to compromise on were the voice (which was impossible to reproduce on the 2600), and the controls which had to be simplified slightly due to the 2600 only having one fire button.  In the Arcade there were separate fire buttons for shooting and dropping Sinibombs, but on the 2600 your ship has auto fire, so the fire button drops the Sinibombs instead.  This really doesn't take away from the gameplay since you were always shooting in the arcade anyway (your fingers just got a bit of an extra work out).
So why wasn't Sinistar released?  Around the time Sinistar was being completed (early 1984), the video game market was crumbling fast and many new games never got released.  Atari had already commissioned artwork for Sinistar, and the game seems to have been nearly completed so it was probably a matter of weeks before Sinistar would be finalized and ready for production.  Perhaps playtesters thought the game was too difficult or wasn't polished enough, but whatever the reason Sinistar got shelved and was forgotten about.  An Atari 400/800 version was also in the works and nearly complete.
---Sinistar (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Stunt Cycle was one of Atari's first "Non-Pong" standalone consoles, and was based off the Atari coin-op of the same name.  The console consisted of a set of handlebar grips, which you could use to make your cycle move faster or slower and a fire button used to make you jump.  The gameplay revolves around making your "Stunt Cycle" jump over cars (ala Evil Knievel) and land safely on the other side without flying off the end of the screen.  Your cycle starts at the top of the screen, where you are given two "rows" of screen space to build up speed before hitting the ramp at the bottom.  The "trick" to the game is to build up enough speed to jump over the cars, but not too much that you go crashing off the edge of the screen.  If you successfully make the jump the row of cars gets wider and you have to go back and jump it again.
Sometime in 1980 Atari decided that Stunt Cycle would make a great 2600 game, so Bob Polaro was tapped to do the conversion.  Using the paddle controllers to simulate the original consoles bike grips, Bob made a perfect port of the standalone console.  One change that was made to the game was the addition of color.  Since the original coin-op and home console were from 1976, the graphics were in Black and White (which was standard at the time).  Since Atari 2600 games had to have the option of color or B&W, some color was added to the game (although not much) to spruce it up.  After a few months of programming, Stunt Cycle was finished and ready to go.
It was around this time that marketing had "brilliant" idea; why not make Stunt Cycle into a Dukes of Hazzard game?  So Bob went back to work retooling the graphics to fit the new Dukes of Hazzard theme.  The cycle was changed into the General Lee, while the row of cars was changed into a lake.  Some Dukes of Hazzard theme music was also added to the game to complete the illusion.
So after a few more months of tinkering, the new Dukes of Hazzard version of Stunt Cycle was good to go, but there was a problem.  Cleaver playtesters soon realized that you could change the speed on the car in mid-air!  This means you could go full blast at the ramp and then slow down suddenly after you've made the jump, but before you've landed.  This basically took the challenge out of the whole game, making it fairly boring.  After Dukes of Hazzard was shelved, programmer Mark Hahn was then tapped to do a totally new Dukes of Hazzard game from scratch (which was never released either).
Did Atari make the right decision in canceling Stunt Cycle?  This is a hard question to answer since it's unknown what Atari's original motives were.  Had Stunt Cycle been released in 1980 as a color port of the coin-op it probably would have been very successful since people who bought it would have known what they were getting, and wouldn't mind the blocky graphics, which were standard for that time.  Had Atari released it as Dukes of Hazzard a year later, people would have probably felt gypped as it wouldn't be long before they realized that the game was nothing more than Stunt Cycle with new graphics.  Atari made the right decision in not releasing the updated Dukes of Hazzard version, but screwed up by not releasing the original Stunt Cycle version.  Chalk this one up to another act of Atari mismanagement.
Strangely Stunt Cycle was never mentioned in any Atari catalogs, and was never assigned a product number.
---Stunt Cycle (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Surf's Up was the third and last game to make use of Amiga's JoyBoard controller.  The JoyBoard was a quirky device that you would stand on and lean in the direction you wanted your character to move.  An interesting concept, but it didn't work overly well and only one officially released game (Mogul Maniac) made use of it.  While Amiga's second game Off Your Rocker was sold in limited quantities through Happy Valley Video, Surf's Up was never sold in stores.
In case you haven't guessed, Surf's Up is a surfing game which attempts to use the JoyBoard to mimic a surfboard.  While this wasn't a bad idea in concept, the gameplay didn't quite work out the way Amiga had hoped.  The game is pretty much a balance contest as you stand on the JoyBoard trying not to fall off as you begin to doze off from the gameplay.  Yes folks, the game is that boring.
You control a little yellow surfboard (which just happens to be the same size and shape as the JoyBoard) which you can move about the screen in an attempt to "ride the wave".  You can move towards the top of the wave (represented by a red line) to score points, but if you stay there too long you'll wipe out.  Beyond that you can move left and right along the screen, but you don't gain any points for doing so.  There is a second red line which moves up and down the screen, but doesn't appear to do anything (perhaps it's simulating the movement of the wave?).  Once you've moved around the screen and wiped out once or twice, you've seen all there is to see in the game.
While the gameplay may need work, the graphics in Surf's Up are very well done.  The title screen shows a little man (who looks like a stick figure) on a surfboard in a rather well drawn ocean scene.  The next screen shows a first person view of the ocean from your surfboard as you pick which level you want to start on.  The starting level must affect the difficulty of the game, but I haven't noticed a difference.  The main game screen shows your little yellow surfboard on a moving blue ocean with some palm trees, houses, and a mountain (a volcano?) in the background.  The rhythmic roll of the ocean has been nicely implemented with moving blue lines which give you a calm, relaxed feeling.  Too bad Amiga spent their entire game budget on the graphics, because the gameplay needs some major work!
All in all Surf's Up isn't really a bad game I suppose, plus it is the only surfing game for the 2600 in the US (unless you count the surfing sequence in California Games).  Using an actual JoyBoard instead of an emulator will enhance the gameplay slightly, but not enough to make me want to play it for more than a few minutes.  In all fairness to Amiga, they may have still been tweaking the gameplay since this is a prototype.  However I don't see what more could be done to make this game interesting since what you can do is limited by the JoyBoard itself (no wild tricks or dangerous jumps would be possible).  Nice try Amiga. An A for effort, but a C- for execution.
---Surf's Up (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
The Synthcart is a rather unique title for the 2600 that allows you to play music using a pair of keyboard controllers. Each keyboard controller controls one of the two oscillators in the Atari 2600. You can learn more about the Synthcart and download an MP3 demo of it in action on Paul Slocum's Synthcart web site. 

AtariAge sponsored a Synthcart Beat Programming Contest in early 2002 to allow people to create and contribute beats to be included with the Synthcart. Check out the contest page for all the details and listen to all the beats that were submitted! 

Includes cartridge and full-color manual. Requires a pair of Keypad Controllers. You can download and print a keypad overlay here. Available in NTSC and PAL formats (please specify above when ordering). The Synthcart cannot be used with SECAM Atari 2600 models due to the way the Black & White switch functions on those systems.
---Synthcart (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
Port of the of the obscure Exidy coin-op of the same name, Targ is a simple yet strangely addictive action game that never saw a home port.  Originally planned as a CBS release, Targ fairly far along in the development process but shelved due to the crumbling video game market.  Targ was eventually picked up, finished, and released by Telegames as Universal Chaos.  However due to licensing issues, the graphics and name had to be changed.
Targ's gameplay is simple, you must maneuver you ship (the Wummel) through the Crystal City and destroy all the enemy ships before they ram into you.  Sound easy?  Well there's a little catch, the Wummel is constantly moving forward through the maze at breakneck speeds!  It takes several seconds to slow down and turn the Wummel around, making it a risk proposition. This makes a relatively simple game much more challenging (and exciting).  The further you progress into the game, the faster the Wummel and the Ram ships will move.
Due to the limitations of the 2600, the 9x9 maze from the original coin-op has been reduced to 5x9.  This actually makes the game much harder as there is less maze to hide in.  Another change to this version is that the Spector Smuggler is absent.  In the arcade version every now and then one of the squares in the maze will open up and a new ship called the Spector Smuggler will appear.  The Spector acts just like the Ram ships, but shooting it is worth big bonus points which increase with each level.  The Spector is present in the later Telegames version and in Universal Chaos, so one has to wonder if this omission is due to the CBS version being incomplete.
Targ is actually very similar to the Sierra computer game Crossfire, but I guess no one noticed as no copyright suits were ever filed. Targ's sequel, Spectar, was promised for release on the Colecovision, but this version too never saw the light of day.  While it's not exactly a sleeper hit, Targ is still a great game that deserved a better fate.  Just one question; exactly what is a Targ?
---Targ (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Telepathy is one of two known prototype games that were developed for Atari's failed Mindlink controller.  The Mindlink was a headband that player wore on his head and plugged into the joystick port.  The idea was that the Mindlink's sensors would pick up any facial movements or muscle twitches the player would make.  Atari actually said that the Mindlink read the player's thoughts (sure it did...).  The problem was that the Mindlink didn't work very well in initial test runs, and even when it did work players would complain of headaches and dizziness from twitching their face all day.  After disappointing test results, the Mindlink controller was wisely canceled.
Telepathy was actually developed as a demo to show what kind games the Mindlink could do.  This "demo" is made up of seven different action screens held together by a loose "mine" theme.  Thankfully Telepathy is playable without the Mindlink controller (unlike Bionic Breakthrough) by pressing the joystick button.  It's unknown if Atari was thinking of releasing Telepathy sans Mindlink or if the joystick code was put in the game for playtesting purposes.
Unlike most games of the time, Telepathy has a demo mode which will run through all the screens if the game is left untouched.  Interestingly you can control the player in the demo using the joystick, it's unknown if this was intentional or just a bug.  The game starts off with a really cool sign which descends from the top of the screen telling you which mine your on.  After that you're whisked off to the first screen.

The Plain

This is the oddest screen in the whole game, because it doesn't seem to fit the theme of the rest of the screens.  You control a large white man with antennas sticking out of his head.  You must guide the man over the glowing triangles as he walks along the plain.  The glowing triangles appear in a weaving line (like a trail of bread crumbs) and will eventually lead to a large hole in the ground.  Each glowing triangle is initially worth 5 points, but each successive triangle you collect is worth an addition 5 points (5, 10, 15, 20, etc.).  If you miss a triangle the point value starts back over at 5.  The controls on this level are a bit strange, as the man will always want to move to the far left side of the screen.  You must struggle to keep him moving on the proper path, collecting triangles as he goes.  As you get to the higher mines the amount of triangles and the speed at which you walk increase.  The pattern of the triangles will also become more twisted and harder to follow.  Once you reach the hole at the end of the path you are taken to the spider screen.

Spiders

This is the first level in the mine itself.  Your guy is now a small Indiana Jones looking character instead of the large man with the antennas.  Your character looks so much like Indiana Jones in fact that some people initially speculated that this prototype was really Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom (this was before the names on the EPROM's were known).  The goal of this level is to run past the spiders and get to the hole at the bottom of the screen before the timer runs out.  If you get hit by one of the spiders, you start over at the top of the screen and lose a life.  The spiders are fast and hard to avoid because they bounce around the screen, but you can always find a safe zone at the edges of each ledge.  You can either run (your normal mode of transportation) or walk by holding down the fire button.  Walking allows you to move more accurately, but since it's speed that counts you'll want to run to the exit.  You have 15 seconds to complete this level, but since the timer counts in tenths of a second it starts at 1500.  From here on every time you complete a level you'll get 100 points for each second left on timer.  In the higher mines the spiders are faster and move more erratically.

Elevators

This level starts to appear beginning in mine 2.  The board structure is very similar to the spider level, but instead of avoiding spiders you need to avoid moving elevator platforms.  If your man happens to bump into a moving platform he'll be thrown back a bit, but if he steps onto one he'll be transported back to the top of the elevator.  Since time is short anything that keeps you from getting to the screen is bad, even if it's not deadly.  For some reason the holes in the ledges have been replaced by white hatches, but they function the same way.  In later mines the speed of the elevators increases dramatically.  

Ledges

This level begins to appear starting in mine 3.  You must carefully maneuver you man as he falls from ledge to ledge, avoiding the fireballs being shot from the sides of the mine.  The fireballs move with blinding speed, and with your slow rate of decent there is almost time to avoid them.  You can tell where the fireballs are about come from by looking for the red glow around the rocks on the sides of the screen.  The best strategy for this level is to land on each ledge and wait for the next fireball to launch before continuing.  In later mines the ledges begin to move making things even more difficult.  

The Mashers

This level starts to appear from mine 4 onward.  At first glance the level appears to be empty, but suddenly large mashers will quickly descend and retract from the ceiling.  Timing is crucial on this level as the mashers are very fast and are invisible until they descend from the ceiling.  As always, your goal is to reach the bottom of the screen before the timer runs out.

The Miner

This level is rather simple.  After your man falls down the shaft you can either walk over to the left and save the stranded miner (ala HERO), or exit to the right and forget the miner.  Grabbing the miner doesn't seem to do anything, but since this is the goal of the game it would be dumb not to.  If you choose to rescue the miner you can levitate out of the hole by pushing against the wall.  There are large boulders which fall down from the top of the shaft, but they're slow so they don't pose much of a threat (although the speed does increase with each mine).  

The River

This is always the last level in each mine.  On this level you must move your man through the gaps in the river walls while avoiding the deadly piranha.  The controls are similar to the Plain level as you man will constantly move to the left unless you keep pushing the joystick to the right.  Your man will automatically move through the gaps in the river when he is in front of them, but since the level is constantly scrolling forward this is a good thing.  If you get bumped off the bottom of the screen or touch a piranha your man will be killed and you'll have to start the level over.  The higher the mine level, the faster the fish and scrolling become.  If you complete this level you will be transported to the next mine.

It's unknown if Atari actually ever planned to turn Telepathy into a commercial game, but as it stands it's one hell of a demo.  It's hard to believe that these mini-games would work well with the hard to use Mindlink controller, as they require pin point precision, constant movement, and other things that the Mindlink didn't do well.  They do however work quite well with the joystick, which may be why that code was added.  So fire up the emulator and enjoy Telepathy, the best game that never was.
---Telepathy (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Another clon of Tetris self-publishe for Atari 2600.
---Tetris 26 (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
Thwocker was one of the long lost Activision prototypes that finally surfaced in 2001 when it was found a thrift shop along with some other prototypes.  Like most other unreleased Activision games, Thwocker was never mentioned in any catalogs or announced at any gaming expos.  Apparently Activision liked to keep their games secret until they were sure it was going to be released.  Not a bad policy.
Thwocker is a game as strange as its name.  Written by Charlie Heath (of Reactor fame), Thwocker was described as "Joust with musical instruments".  While this isn't a bad description, it really doesn't illustrate all the gameplay elements that make Thwocker such an interesting game.  You control a little conductor (who happens to look like a bowling ball) who must bounce around a maze collecting musical notes for his song.  Along the way you must avoid various musical instruments that are out to get you (can't we all just get along?).  However you can't go grabbing just any musical notes, you must collect them in the proper order.  The current note type needed is shown at the bottom of the screen.  If you touch the wrong type of note you will ricochet off it, send your conductor flying across the screen (usually into a waiting enemy).  After collecting all the notes you must grab the treble clef symbol at the top of the maze to start the song.  Once the song starts to play your character will be able to touch enemies and notes for points (think of it as a power pellet) until the song ends.  After completing the song you can exit the level by touching the exit square.
The controls in Thwocker take a little getting use to, but they're not as tricky as they first seem.  The levels seem to be made out of some kind of springy material, so your character bounces all around the screen.  You can control how high you bounce by pushing up and down.  Pushing down will make the conductor take little bounces, while pressing up (as you touch the ground) will make him bounce really high.  You can stop bouncing all together by pressing the fire button, which will make the conductor sort of "skip" across the level.  You will need to master all these bouncing techniques to successfully complete the level.
Sadly Thwocker is incomplete as there is no way to exit the level.  It was thought that they player simply needed to touch the exit square after completing the song to finish the level, but this does not appear to be the case.  It appears that the code that allows you to destroy the enemy after completing the song also allows you to destroy the exit, so the game appears to be unwinnable.  However after careful examination of the game code, it appears there may be more to Thwocker than meets the eye.  Apparently the player must somehow "combine" the two voices of the song after it starts playing to exit the level.  Unfortunately we haven't figured out how this portion of the game works yet, but it may have something to do with picking up certain objects on the screen.  However just because the code to exit the level exists doesn't mean it's actually possible to do it in the game, so Thwocker may still be unwinnable after all.
Thankfully you can still see the other levels by selecting the higher difficulty levels at the title screen.  Programmer Charlie Heath (who owns the only other known prototype) has said that Thwocker is only around 80% complete when development was cancelled.  One has to wonder what else Charlie had in store for us, as other than the lack of the ability to finish a level Thwocker seems fully playable and complete.  Perhaps there were some minor game or difficulty issues left to work out?  The only glitch I've seen in the game is on the game select screen.  The game number should go from 1 to 10, but there are six games in between 9 and 10.  These game numbers are represented by a space, another space, a white eigth note, a space, a white quarter note, and a dot.  This is most likely because the game numbers are stored in hex (base 16), so there are 16 games represented.  It is unknown if Charlie actually intended for there to be 16 games or only 10, but since they all seem to be playable one comes to the conclusion that they were indeed planned.
Thwocker, along with Kabobber, were victims of the collapsing videogame market in 1984.  It was around this time that Activision decided it was time to get out of the 2600 market and concentrate on the new gaming fad Home Computers.  Activision did release a few new games during the 2600 revival years, but Thwocker was not one of them.  At this point Activision was concentrating on converting arcade games to the 2600 instead of releasing older unpublished games.  What they didn't realize is that the older games they were ignoring were much better than the new games they were putting out (but that's another story).  Thankfully Thwocker finally got its long overdue release, and now we can all enjoy what has to be one of the most unique 2600 games I've ever seen.
---Thwocker (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Ah, the Bahamas. Toyshop elves Patrick, Quincy, and Robert are laying on the beach, relaxing in the sun. Nothing could be finer than listening to the surf while enjoying a cold drink. A great reward for having gotten all of Santa's toys painted in record time. Unfortunately for you, Patrick's idea of "painting" toys was dumping them all in a bucket of gray paint. While this technically fulfilled his associates' obligations (thus their trip to the Bahamas), the toys--alas--still have to be painted properly.

It's now your job to clean up their mess, which means properly painting the toys in time for Santa's departure Christmas Eve. You must paint the toys as they move along five conveyor belts. Ahh, but only if it were as easy as it sounds! Toys must be painted the proper color, and some toys require two coats of paint (with different colors), and if that wasn't bad enough, some must have their coats applied in the proper order! And not that you needed the additional pressure, but you also have a daily quota to meet. You must properly paint all the toys that appear on the conveyor belts each day before the whistle at the end of your shift sounds!

Santa's counting on you to ensure that all the toys are painted correctly! Can you get the job done before Santa's sleigh is loaded up on Christmas Eve? You don't want to be responsible for children waking up Christmas morning without toys under their trees, do you? Time to juggle those cans of paint and get moving!

Toyshop Trouble is the 2007 re-release of the 2006 AtariAge Holiday Cart. For the fourth year in a row, AtariAge created an annual holiday cartridge as part of our annual holiday sale. Toyshop Trouble was a collaboration between several homebrew authors and artists, including John Payson, Zach Matley, Bob Montgomery, Nathan Strum, Dave Exton, Fred Quimby, Thomas Jentzsch, and others. Toyshop Trouble features in-game artwork by Nathan Strum (who has contributed to several homebrew projects), and includes a beautifully illustrated label and manual by Dave Exton, whose brush graces many homebrew games in our store. The original release of the game was numbered--the 2007 re-release carts were not, and the manual and label were modified slightly to remove the "Holiday Cart" references.
---Toyshop Trouble (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
Believe me when I say that this prototype is a complete mystery.  No programmer, no model number, and only a guess on the company  We don't even know the name of the game.  The only we have as to the identity of this prototype is the name Universal, which is silk screened onto the EPROM board.  We now speculate that this might have been a TCF game as another Universal style board was recently found in a TCF prototype.  If this is indeed a TCF game then it might be the mysterious Six Pack that was mentioned in early manuals (based on the racing movie of the same name), however the drag racing aspect fits closer to the TCF movie Heart Like A Wheel (pat yourself on the back if you actually remember that movie).  The only flaw with this theory is that no game was ever announced for that movie. 
While we may never know the true identity of this game, it's a sure fire bet that it was meant to be a clone of Activision's Dragster (which is really a clone of Atari's Drag Race).  However unlike Dragster or Drag Race which are viewed from the side, this game is viewed from behind.  The perspective is similar to that of Activision's Enduro, right down to the vanishing point on the horizon.   It's immediately obvious from the graphics that alot of work was being put into this game.
As previously mentioned, this game is really just a clone of Dragster.  The player must rev his engine and change gears as fast as possible without blowing the engine.  However unlike Dragster the player actually has control over his car and can steer it around the lane.  The faster the player goes, the further the car will move into the horizon and the harder it is to keep from crashing into the sides of the lane.  Careful steering is a must if you're going to win a race in this game.
The controls in this prototype are a bit screwy, and can easily frustrate someone who isn't familiar with them.  Starting the race is particularly annoying, as the player must press left, up, and right until the little man drops the white flag (or the light turns green).  Once the race has started, pressing up will cause the car to accelerate, while pressing down will change gears.  When pressing down the gear indicator will briefly change from N (Neutral) to C indicating that you are changing gears, continuing to press down will cause the car to shift into gears 1 through 4.  
As you increase your speed the meter at the bottom of the screen will show your current engine temperature.  If you go too fast in a low gear, your engine will blow.  By shifting gears at the proper time you will enable your car to move faster without blowing the engine.  Once you've reached the finish line, you must press the fire button to launch your parachute and slow your car down.  If you do not launch your parachute in time your car will crash.  Pressing the select button will enable the computer driver which takes over the first players spot (the car will turn yellow).  To race against the computer you will have to use the second players joystick.  There are three different computer components to race against, a yellow car, blue car, and finally a red car.  You will have to race the blue and yellow cars a few times in order to see the red car.
There are two different racing variations available in this prototype, which can be selected by toggling the left difficulty switch. When the switch is in the A position the race takes place on a city street (which looks suspiciously like Sega's Turbo) with stock cars and a man with a white flag that starts the race.  When the switch is in the B position the race takes place out in the desert with dragsters and the race is started by an automatic light.  This is little difference between the two except the dragster variation moves faster than the stock car variation (the player must switch gears faster).  While it may appear that there is no one player option for the dragster variation, there actually is but you really have to work to get to it.  In order to get to the one player dragster race you must first beat all three opponents (yellow, blue, and red), and then you will start the next race in the desert.
While it isn't the best game out there, this racing game show promise and it's mysterious nature simply adds to allure.  This prototype was auctioned off by Best Electronics in 2004, and released by Curt Vendel of the Atari History Museum on Atari Age for the classic gaming community to enjoy.  Expect more information on this prototype soon.
---Unknown 20th Century Fox Game (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Found in a salvage yard in 1998 by Ben Liashenko, the identity of this mysterious Activision prototype has eluded collectors for years.  This prototype plays like a cross between a Rubik's Cube and the old sliding puzzle game.  The goal of the game is to line up all the colors in each row from light to dark.  If you've done it correctly the board should look like the start-up screen with the colors descending from red to purple.  However lining up all the colors is easier said than done due to the unique way the squares move across the board.  When you move your square up or down a row or column, the last square in that row will move behind your square's new position.  For instance if my square is the light green one (center of the row), and I move it left it will result in the last square in the row (the light blue one) moving behind it.  If I moved right instead, the last square on the right (the dark blue one) would move behind my square.  Mastering how the squares move is essential to solving the puzzle.
If you forget what order the squares should go in, pressing the fire button will cause all the squares in the correct positions to turn black.  While this is helpful for positioning the shades of color in each row, it won't help you remember what color is supposed to go in each row.
Strangely both joysticks seem to function in this prototype even though it's one player only.  My best guess is that a second player feature was planned, so both joysticks were made to move the tiles temporarily until it was implemented.  The difficulty switches and the Color/B&W switch have no effect in this prototype.  Even though there are four different game variations present, only two seem to be complete and playable.

Game 1

The board is always randomized at the start of this game.  

Game 2

The board pattern is fixed in this game.

Game 3

This game is still a mystery.  Unlike the other two games, the board starts out already solved.  Also of note is that this game is not timed like the others, instead it appears as if you are able to score points in some way.  This game may be unfinished.

Game 4

This game is a demonstration very similar to the one that plays if you leave the game alone for a few minutes.  In this game the board starts out empty and is filled in by the sliding squares.  It does not appear that the player can interact with this game in any way.

While this prototype looks above average for a 2600 game, the gameplay just isn't up to Activision standards.  This puzzle game is boring, overly difficult, and in the end absolutely no fun to play.  I can only hope this prototype was a concept demo missing some major gameplay elements, as I can't see this game being ready for release.  Still if you're into puzzle games, this prototype will seriously challenge your mind (and your sanity).
---Unknown Activision Game #1 (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Along with UAG#1 this mysterious prototype was found in a salvage yard in 1998 by Ben Liashenko.  Since the label that once existed for this game has long since fallen off, we have no idea what the identity of this game might be.  However, this game appears to be much more playable than the other unknown Activision prototype.
This mysterious game plays somewhat like Atari's Save Mary.  However this time instead of building a tower by dropping bricks from the top of the screen, you must bump blocks from the bottom of the screen.  Before you start screaming about Activision copying Atari's idea, keep in mind that this game was programmed about seven years before Save Mary.  I'm sure the similarity of the concepts is just a coincidence.
In this game you control a little Space Invader guy who must use the blocks at the bottom of the screen to build a tower and escape.  As the blocks come rolling down the conveyer belt, you must jump up and bump them so they land somewhere on the screen (the blocks don't count if they go off the edge of the screen).  The movement scheme in this prototype is a bit unusual as the longer you hold the joystick in a direction, the faster your little guy will run.  Although this is very realistic, it is a bit odd for a 2600 game and may take some time to get used to.  Once you have constructed a nice little tower, you must carefully jump on the conveyer belt and them climb the tower.  Be extra careful on the conveyer belt, as touching the blocks will cause your little guy to be flattened.  
Starting on the second level, you'll undoubtedly notice that some blocks will flash yellow or blue.  These colored blocks are actually part of an elaborate timing/bonus system.  The yellow block (which I call the Bump block) moves up the tower at the rate of once block a second, while the blue block (which I call the Bonus block) moves up the tower one block every time the yellow block reaches the top of the screen.  If your character happen to be on the tower when the yellow block touches him, you will be knocked down one level (slowing your decent up the tower).  However if your character touches the blue 'Bonus' block, you will gain bonus points as long as he remains on the block.  However greed can be a dangerous thing as the tower will collapse after a certain amount of time (determined by the difficulty level).  When the warning alarm sounds, you have exactly 10 seconds to hightail it up the tower or you'll be crushed under the debris.
Starting on the third level, strange aliens creatures will begin to fly around the screen.  You can destroy them by hitting them with a flying block.  Smashing aliens is worth 180 points, while simply bumping a block will net you 5 points.  If you let the octopus alien reach the bottom of the screen he'll start breeding and clog the area.  However since you can simply knock the extra aliens out of the way so he's not a really big problem.  If you're really tricky you can use the blocks to fence in the alien and keep him form reaching the bottom, but this is more trouble than it's worth.  Starting on the fourth level a squat looking alien with two legs will rapidly move down the screen and try to catch your guy at the bottom of the screen.  When this happens you'll need to jump on the conveyer belt temporarily to escape until he disappears.  Unfortunately this alien is immune to the blocks so all you can do is avoid him.  If you manage to score 100,000 points the score counter will reset to zero and you will be rewarded with an extra life.
Unlike most Activision games, this prototype has no game variations. However since this is still a WIP, game variations may have been planned later on.  The left difficulty switch controls the game difficulty (A=Easy, B=Hard), while the right switch appears to control how your character climbs the blocks.  When the right difficulty switch is in the 'B' position you cannot touch the center of the tower, as doing so will result in a block smashing your character.  Instead you must build the tower in a staircase-like fashion and climb up the edges of the blocks.  Naturally this is much more difficult to set up than a simple tower of blocks, so this variation is recommended for experts only.  When the right switch is in the 'A' position, your character can climb up the center of the blocks making things much easier.  Although this prototype appears to be nearly complete, there are still a few bugs in the game.  Glitches include such things as your character getting stuck in the walls, and the screen becoming unstable when being bumped by the yellow block or when avoiding the leg alien.
The graphics and sounds for this title are top notch; it's obvious that a lot of work went into this game.  Everything from the smooth animation of your character to the cute "Can-Can" sequence at the start of the game screams quality.  So why was this game never released?  Unfortunately no one but the programmer knows the answer to this, but one possibility is that they may have left Activision before the game was completed.  Unlike Thwocker and Kabobber, we can't even put a name to this prototype, which makes it almost impossible to research its history or even figure out who the programmer was.  The EPROM is labeled MM NTSC D#3, which doesn't match up with any of Activision's known works in progress.  It is unknown what MM stands for, but it may have been a temporary code name used until a real title was decided on.
---Unknown Activision Game #2 (USA) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Simon was an electronic memory game released by Milton Bradley in 1978 that became an instant hit worldwide. Launched at Studio 54 in New York, its popularity was based on its simple premise (very easy to pick up), the gameplay itself (visual/touch/sound/memory!) and a subtle but clever decision by its creators to make the sounds themselves harmonic - it always sounds pleasing whichever order the tones play.

This is the version for Atari 2600.
---Video Simon (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
Vong is a homebrew game that plays like the classic arcade game Pong, but vertically instead of horizontally. Vong features six gameplay modes, two of which are hidden. The normal modes are: 

Game 1 = Single Player
Game 2 = Two Player
Left Difficulty A = Small Paddles
Left Difficulty B = Large Paddles
---Vong (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
Words Attack was re-discovered in 2002 and appears to be the rarest of all Sancho games. Your ship is attacked by three invaders from above, while letters and objects (fruit, hearts, creatures, etc) appear on alternating rows between you and the enemy. Shooting a letter will make it appear in the space below your ship. Shooting an object or being shot by the enemy will cause a letter to disappear from your row and will also cause you to loose a life.
---Words-Attack (Europe) (Proto)-------------------------------------------------------------
Here is what the programmer, Russell Babylon, had to say: "At present this is a one player game. The game follows standard Yahtzee rules. The only exception is that you can only score extra Yahtzees as a Yahtzee (some versions of the rules allow you to score extra Yahtzees as combinations less than a Yahtzee). The game control is very intuitive. You use the left joystick to play the game. From the title screen press the fire button to go to the game screen and roll the dice. The five dice are white in color which indicates they are all unselected. Pull the joystick down or move it right or left to highlight a die. The highlighted die will flash. Press the fire button to select the die. Move the joystick in any direction to move away from the die. Notice that the selected die will now be green in color. Repeat the above sequence to select all the dice you wish to keep. Now move the joystick up or down so that no dice are flashing and you have not highlighted any scoring options. Press the fire button to roll the unselected dice. You may roll the dice a total of three times. After any roll you may score your dice combination by pulling down or up repeatedly on the joystick until you have highlighted the scoring option you wish to use. Press the fire button when the appropriate scoring option is highlighted and if your dice combination is correct you will get the appropriate score. There are no take backs so be careful with your scoring. I have been working on some AI algorithms to have the computer play a game of Yahtzee against you but these are in the early stages."
---Yahtzee (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
Another clone of Tetris for Atari 2600.
---Z-Blocks (USA) (Unl)-------------------------------------------------------------
