The seventh installment of the Final Fantasy series takes place in a post-modern, steampunk, sci-fi world where high technology reigns and where robots and bio-engineered mutants co-exist with humans and dragons.

The story focuses on Shinra Inc., an evil mega-corporation responsible for all the world's high technology. Shinra supports this technology with Mako Energy, Shinra's patented source of power. Unfortunately Mako is the lifeblood of the living planet and by using it up Shinra is slowly upsetting the balance of nature.

In comes AVALANCHE, a rebel group of disenfranchised citizens who have taken it upon themselves to oppose Shinra's ambitions. The main character is an ex-Shinra soldier named Cloud Strife, an angst ridden fella with a complex history that's explained as the game goes on. Cloud joins up with AVALANCHE as a mercenary for hire, and together they take on Shinra's maniacal executives and their army of shock-troops, robots, and mutants. However after a while it becomes apparent that there are other forces at work, and ultimately Cloud must not only fight against Shinra, but also stop a powerful man from his past from destroying the world.

Final Fantasy VII updates the Esper character growth system from Final Fantasy VI into the Materia system. Instead of magic spells, abilities, and bonus stats being saved to a single character, they are saved to the materia itself, allowing you to change a character's spells and abilities from the equipment menu at any time. Also updated from VI are character-specific abilities, now called Limit Breaks. By sustaining enough damage without dying a character will build up their Limit Gauge, which when filled can be expended to do a much more damaging attack than normal. More powerful Limit Breaks are unlocked as previous ones are used, and acquiring the most powerful Limit Break of each character will require completion of sub-quests. Final Fantasy VII also features plenty of mini-games and many ways to explore the game world, including the submarine first introduced in  Final Fantasy III.
