Part of the popular Jump Start series, JumpStart Wildlife Safari: Field Trip is a learning activity game for PlayStation aimed at ages four and up. Intended to introduce and reinforce a number of skills including counting, alphabet, and shape recognition, the game uses the Jump Start's Early Discovery characters Kisha, Frankie, and Casey to accompany children through five different environments of learning activities. Also featured is JumpStart's Adjust-for-You learning technology, which recognizes individual progress and continually adjusts to keep the challenges from being too hard or too easy. Kisha and Frankie have been separated from Casey, and he is now lost on the safari grounds. Children help find him by playing as either Kisha or Frankie and completing all three levels of each environment. Difficulty increases with each level, and after one environment is successfully completed, players earn one letter toward spelling Casey's name. When completely spelled, Casey is found and will then become available as a character for selection. The Cat's Den, Goat Island, the Hatchery, Songbird Garden, and Polar Bear Mountain are the five areas for play. In the Cat's Den, children practice distinguishing similarities and differences as they return cubs to their respective mothers. On Polar Bear Mountain, children use color, pattern, and shape recognition as they ski down a flag-staked mountain choosing flags that match the color and shape of a specific flag pattern. Goat Island reinforces the alphabet as players rebuild log bridges, the Hatchery uses number recognition and counting through ten while children return eggs to mother ostriches, and Songbird Garden introduces music and pattern recognition. A game separate from the safari is also included in the Photo Booth and is accessible from the area selection screen. Here, children can play a memory game where matched cards disappear to reveal a hidden picture beneath. Bonus stars can be collected throughout each level, enabling more images to become available in the Photo Booth game. 
