Ten of Konami's classic arcade games, originally released from 1981-1985, make their their Playstation debut in this compilation:

Pooyan - As your fellow pigs lower and raise you in an elevator for the perfect shot, you must defend them against the wolves.  Shoot their balloons with arrows or make a bunch of them lose their grip by hitting them with meat.  Time too many shots poorly and the wolves will inch their way up the tree towards you and the other pigs.  The higher they get, the higher of an area you're restricted to for aiming.

Circus Charlie - Six games of timing, reflex and patience in one, each more difficult than the last.  Jump a lion through hoops and over flaming urns.  Hurdle over monkeys on a tight rope.  Bounce from trampoline to trampoline.  Roll and leap from ball to ball.  Avoid being knocked off your horse by jumping over or bouncing off of springboards.  And at the most challenging level, fly from trapeze to trapeze.

Shao-Lin's Road - Leap from level to level, kicking henchmen and their tougher bosses.  Collect powerups like the roatating energy ball and the spiked ball.

Roc 'N Rope - Cavemen and lizards impede your climb to reach the elusive Phoenix.  Your only tools are a rope and flashlight.  Throw your rope, climb up, and avoid your enemies or blind them with your flashlight.

Yie Ar Kung-Fu - One of the granddaddies of one-on-one fighters.  Start with the giant Buchu, working your way up through the ranks against armed opponents using only your punches and kicks.  Each angle combined with either punch or kick provides a different attack.

Scramble - Fly your rocket through enemy territory, avoiding enemy missiles or taking them down with your blasters or bombs.  If you run out of fuel, you're history, so remember to shoot the fuel tanks to refuel.

Road Fighter - A high-speed top-down racer.  Pass other racers to increase your score.  Crashing results in fuel penalties.  Run into the multi-colored fuel cars or run the risk of running out of gas.

Super Cobra - The speedy sequel to Scramble.  Pilot your helicopter through similar territory, once again taking out rockets and fuel tanks.  But now, you'll have to contend with turrets and other new enemies.

Gyruss - Wave-based shmup in which you move your ship around the screen in a 360 degree loop.  Avoid the swooping enemies and their shots.  Grabbing the double shot increases your chances of survival.

Time Pilot  Pilot your craft in every direction through borderless levels spread across time.  Biplanes, blimps, and more will try to take you out before you can eliminate them.  Catch parachuters for bonus points.

Each game, originally mated with a vertical monitor in the arcade, has been shrunk to fit the horizontal display common to most homes.  Accomodating for the smaller playfield size, scores, lives and power meters for most games have been moved to the previously empty space on the righthand side.

Added features include the following:

Saving - Retain all of your high scores.

Difficulty and Life Counts - Adjust them to your liking.

DualShock Compatibility - Use the analog stick and/or add vibration feedback to games.

Histories - Simple history pages featuring release dates, screenshots and trivia.

Pre-game Instructions and Tips - Don't know how to play?  As the game loads, you are presented with a simple instruction set, similar to what would have been on the original machine.  Hit left or right at that screen for more detailed gameplay tips.
