In Mary-Kate and Ashley: Magical Mystery Mall, the Olsen's favorite mall has been frozen in time.  They must collect all the missing gems to end the spell or they'll never be able to leave.  It is essentially a collection of minigames with the mall serving as a hub.  There's an information booth which teaches how to play and get to the various games, then there are the stores with the games.

There is a fashion show segment, where you must first pick the number of outfits to model, which twin goes first, then all the pieces of each outfit.  There are four pieces you can choose independently: hair, shirt, skirt/pants and shoes.  For each part, you can choose color and style separately, making for a lot of possible outfits.  Next, they model them on a runway.  You must take a good picture of the outfit, which means proper camera position and zoom and catching them as they do a pose.  You get points for each picture, which as used to earn a gem.

There is also a Lizzie's Lunch segment which has the girls working in a fast food court on roller skates.  As either Mary-Kate or Ashley, you must take customer orders, then bring them their food before they get impatient.  You earn money for each customer served and go through multiple rounds trying to get the minimum amount of money before time runs out.  if you can earn $100 before the end of round five, you get another gem.

There is also a snowboard race game.  You must win two out of three heats on each slope to earn your gem here.  There are pairs of flags throughout the course that must must pass through to get a speed boost.  There are also snowflake tokens to collect to earn extra boards.

In a record store segment, called Music Nation, you must film a music video for Mary-Kate and Ashley.  First, you pick out a set of dance moves, then film the results.  You must switch camera angles and use special effects to get a high enough score to win a gem.  In this section, you can remove the game disc and insert any audio CD and choreograph moves to it instead of the included music.

In the next segment, Mary-Kate and Ashley must try to pose for photos with two lifeguard boys who are trying to avoid them.  There are several rounds of situations where one sister holds the camera and the other tries to jump in a photo with them when they aren't looking.  Take clear pictures showing their faces to get a gem.

Once you complete all the segments, you can use the points you earned at the bonus boutique to unlock additional options for the various games, such as extra fashion runways or a dancing DJ in the Music Nation segment.
