An updated version of Military Madness.  The game modes featured include Main Campaign, Original Campaign, Mini-Campaigns, and Single Scenario.  The main campaign involves the story of how in the 21st century mankind has colonized the moon. In 2089, an invading Xenon empire destroys several lunar outposts. The base Nectaris, the largest of the lunar outposts wasn't fully destroyed and a few units escaped alive and now are planning a counter attack on the Xenon empire. Now it's up to the player who is put into the role as the Union forces commander to defeat the enemy Xenon forces. The main campaign goes through a series of over 30 different battlefields. Gameplay involves moving various units on an overhead map of the battlefield. Units movement are done on hexagonal grids. Once the players units make their moves, it is then their opponents turn to move their units. Players can use their various units to attack the opposing forces. Battles sequences are turn based. The outcome of a battle can be affected by the terrain, any support fire present, an encirclement effect, plus the individual strengths and weaknesses of the unit types that are involved in the skirmish. Since both the player and the enemy forces have access to the same unit types, the game emphasizes knowing each units strengths and weaknesses, and the strategic placement of units. Also on the battlefield, players will have access to their factories which allows for additional units to be deployed and gives the player the ability to repair their weakened forces.  This Main Campaign mode brings to the table an all new campaign, while the Original Campaign consists of the entire original campaign from the 1989 game.  The game also features Mini-Campaigns, over 40 individual maps ranging in 4 different map sizes (1x1,1x2, 2x1, and 2x2) that were created by fans of the game.  The Single Scenario mode is locked at first and can be accessed only when the player completes all the campaigns. This mode offers support for 2 players to do battle with each other.  The game has the options of having the battle animations be in 3D, 2D, or turning them off all together, plus altering which buttons confirm and cancel orders given in the game.  There is also a scenario editor where players can create their own scenarios. 
