Golden Logres is another pinball simulator by LittleWing. A sequel to both Tristan and Crystal Caliburn, the game features three tables based on the Arthurian legends: Camelot, Land's End and Fisher King. After completing all the missions on one table, the game moves to the next one. A practice mode is available to test the last two tables and prepare to the full game.  In Camelot, the first table, the objective is to complete all quests, each assigned to a different knight of the round table. The screen shows two medieval banners with the table sitting at the middle. The banners list the active quests, the score, the number of balls left and the status of the game. To start one of the adventures, the player must shoot ramps, sink the ball in holes or drop targets a number of times and then hit the Taliessin holder near the Merlin ramp. Taliessin was a court jester, musician and poet, and he assigns the quests to the knights. When an event occurs, like the end of a quest, a small window appears over the table with a picture and text explaining the situation. After all the quests are complete, the game moves to the next table after hitting the drop targets for the sloth, envy and lust sins, and sinking the ball in the quest hole.  In the second table called Land's End, Lancelot, Tristan and Gawain, the three knights considered the bravest of them all, must prove their courage by undertaking the most dangerous quests. A multiball starts after completing each adventure. Tristan has to kill the dragon, by shooting its ramp and turning on all the lights that spell its name, then sink the ball in the medicine and "myst" hole. Lancelot must lift the curse that fell upon Dolorous Gard, his castle, by shooting the castle ramp and turning on "CASTLE", and receive a gift from the Lady of the Lake after dropping the ball in the magic shield hole. Gawain has to defeat the Green Knight by hitting the "ERRANTRY" ramp to turn on the letter lights, and collect a proof of bravery from Lady Bercilak by getting the ball inside the sash hole. When all the quests are complete, the game switches back to Camelot automatically.  In the final Fisher King table, the ultimate goal is to collect the holy grail from the castle. The three guardians of the grail (Perceval, Bors, and Galahad) must acquire the holy relic and bring it back to Camelot. They receive the aid of other three fellow knights: Balin, Gareth and Palomides. Balin must get the Longinus spear that pierced Jesus on the cross, by turning on its name hitting the "LONGINUS" spot targets, and enter the castle at the top of the table. Gareth has to defeat the three evil knights, by sinking the ball in the challenge hole and dropping the red, blue and black targets, and finally send the ball to the castle to start a multiball. Palomides must kill Arthur's sin, that became a monster after his death, by shooting the beast lane turning on the "BEAST" lights, and sinking the ball in the castle. The grail knights retrieve the sacred cup by hitting the holy targets and the Perceval hole, both activated after colliding with bumpers named after each knight, turning on the "HOLY GRAIL" letters at the center. A multiball starts after entering the castle and receiving the grail. After all modes are finished, the game returns to Camelot.
