So Evil they even gave it a subtitle!

The final installment of the Resident Evil series for the Playstation, Resident Evil 3 takes place during the events of Resident Evil 2. The midwestern town of Raccoon City is in ruins, having been overrun with the undead creating T-virus thanks to the wacky hijinks of William Birkin and Umbrella Inc. As Jill "master of unlocking" Valentine (one of the two main protagonists of the original Resident Evil), you must find a way out of the zombie-infested remains of the city alive. Along the way, you'll interact with and receive help from three heavily armed Umbrella mercenaries who have also become stranded in Raccoon City thanks to the incompetence of their employer. Standing in the way of your group's last escape are a horde of flesh-eating zombified citizens, homicidal mutants, and a relentless killing machine known only as Nemesis who is determined to hunt down and kill the survivors of the original Resident Evil, including Jill.

A dramatic improvement over Tyrant/Mr. X/G from the previous games, Nemesis possesses the same maneuverability as Jill allowing him to run (faster than you, in fact), use firearms (such as a rocket launcher), dodge attacks, and even move through doors and from room to room in pursuit of Jill. On top of that he still possesses the nigh indestructibility we've come to know and... well, know from Umbrella's ultimate bio-weapons. 

Like its two predecessors Resident Evil 3 is a third-person action-adventure game with polygonal characters on pre-rendered backgrounds with cinematic camera angles, a technique originally pioneered by Alone in the Dark. Although the game uses the same basic engine and gameplay as the previous games, improvements include auto-targeting, a 180 degree spin, and a new dodge move that allows you to avoid enemy attacks by pressing a button a second before they strike. Another addition is Jill's ability to create different kinds of ammunition by mixing together three different types of gunpowder found throughout the game. Compared to Resident Evil 2, the amount of available ammunition and healing items has been significantly decreased, making the game more difficult. The variety of zombie citizens has also been made more diverse.

The number of polygons in the character models has also been increased, along with the possible screen resolution and color depth for the PC version (up to 1600 X 1200 at 32 bits, from a maximum of 640 X 480 at 16 bits for Resident Evil 2). Another welcome addition in the PC version is the ability to skip cutscenes as well as the door loading animation.

The PC and Dreamcast versions includes all eight of Jill's possible costumes, as well as the mercenary mini-game Operation Mad Jackal which allows you to play as one of the three Umbrella soldiers. On the Playstation version, these special features must be unlocked by beating the game with a high score.
