Based on the movie of the same name, Space Jam centres around an invasion of Looney Tunes land by tiny aliens. The fate of the Tunes is to be decided by a basketball game, and for this the aliens turn into the huge, evil Monstars.

The game is about two thirds basketball sim and then minigames are stuck in to fill all the gaps. You can play as the Monstars or the Looney Tunes who have the help of Michael Jordan. The basketball games themselves come in two flavours, two-on-two and three-on-three.

Successful completion of the minigames upgrades your character's abilities on the court. There are several - one involves finding MJ's basketball togs, one is a space race in the style of the retro Micro Machines games. There are about five minigames in all, and a player from both teams participates.

The multiplayer is a big aspect of the game. There is the traditional two-player versus, one team Tunes, one team Monstars, and there is also co-operative mode. In this two or even three players can play on the same team. Using multitaps, you can actually have a three-on-three game.

The Tunes roster is made up of Michael Jordan, Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck, Lola Bunny, Taz, Foghorn Leghorn, Pepé Le Pew, Sylvester, Wile E. Coyote, Porky Pig, Elmer Fudd and Yosemite Sam. The Monstars have access to Pound, Bupkus, Bang, Blanko and Nawt.

There are three statistics in the game, namely Speed, Shooting and Rebounds. These are pretty self-explanatory, but there is another more subtle one that's similar to stamina. Throughout the course of play your characters will get tired and lose their focus. A successful slam dunk usually tops this up.

The closest thing the game has to a single player mode is the Intergalactic Tournament (though it can be played multiplayer). This is a series of five matches in a row. One captain is picked and plays every game, while the rest of the team is substituted in and out.

There is no real way to progress in the game as it does not support memory cards. Space Jam has more of an arcade, lighthearted feel to it.
