Speed Racer is an English adaptation name of the Japanese manga and anime, Mach Go Go Go which centered on automobile racing. Mach GoGoGo was originally serialized in print form in Shueisha's 1958 Shonen Book, and was released in tankobon book form by Sun Wide Comics, re-released in Japan by Fusosha. . Based on the popular cartoon, Speed Racer joins the plethora of racing games available for the PlayStation. As Speed Racer himself, you can race on three different tracks simply titled S, M and L for small, medium and large. Before beginning a race you must choose between three slight variations of Speed Racer's famous white Mach 5, one of which has manual transmission. Each of the three cars is equipped with special features such as grip tires, rotary saws, a periscope, a deflector and auto jacks. Other options include 18 different soundtracks, normal and endurance racing modes and the ability to increase the speed and efficiency of your opponents. CHARACTERS: Speed Racer / Go Mifune : The focus character of both the anime and the manga is Speed Racer, originally Go Mifune.[8] He is known for his love of racing and values his family. He drives the Mach 5 (as well as other cars, such as the Mach 6 in the movie) and always manages to wind up in extreme danger (such as encountering thugs, race fixers, gangs, etc.) with his younger brother or his girlfriend Trixie. Speed is shown to miss his older brother, Rex (secretly disguised as the Racer X) in both versions. Spritle / Kurio Mifune and Chim-Chim : Speed Racer has a younger brother named Spritle, originally Kurio Mifune (????? Mifune Kurio?) and Chispita in the Latin American version who, along with his pet chimpanzee, who responded to the name of Chim-Chim in the American Trixie /Michi Shimura ): Trixie is Speed's chaste girlfriend. The "M" adorning Trixie's blouse stands for Michi. Michi would often fly around in a helicopter during a race, advising Speed Racer via a radio link to the Mach 5, in effect acting as his spotter, a function she also serves in the live-action film during the Casa Cristo 5000. I Pops Racer / Daisuke Mifune : Speed's father, Pops, originally Daisuke Mifune (???? Mifune Daisuke?) is a former wrestler-turned race car owner and builder.[8] Reluctantly quitting his job after feuding with a member of a corporate car manufacturing company who disapproved of the construction of a new engine for the Mach 5, he founded his own company, Mifune Motors (In the series' Americanization, the company was changed to Racer Motors). 
