Sports Superbike 2 is a 3d racing game that is the sequel of a game that was never released outside Europe. The game is based in the Superbike racing that is a category of motorcycle racing that employs modified production motorcycles. Superbike World Championship is the international superbike championship, and national superbike championships are held in many countries as well, including the United Kingdom, the United States, Japan, and Canada. Superbike racing is very popular with manufacturers, since it helps promote and sell their product, as captured by the slogan "Win on Sunday; Sell on Monday". Sports Superbike 2 lets players experience motorbike racing on 15 tracks against up to 20 computer-controlled opponents or compete against another human via split screen action. In Single Race mode, players select from Unlicensed, License A, or License B difficulty settings, with novice, amateur, or professional assistance (braking and steering). Initially, only unlicensed racing is available and the others are unlocked by taking and passing "skill tests." Race lengths include three, five, or ten laps, or a full 100 kilometers. Races in inclement weather are not available in novice mode, and many tracks are unlocked only after completing Championship mode at various difficulty settings. The Workshop allows customization of the various motorbikes, including gearbox (automatic or manual), gear ratios (21 different sprocket sets), and tires (hard or soft). Races feature qualifying laps and vibration options when using a Dualshock analog controller. Championship mode initially allows racing only for the Tundra Trophy in unlicensed mode, with success leading to the Mexican Rally and Countryside Challenge. Completing the challenges in unlicensed mode opens access to more tracks in other game modes, with additional tracks earned by completing License A and License B skill tests. Both Single Race and Championship modes are also available in two-player competition, with the former allowing simultaneous head-to-head horizontal split-screen racing (no computer-controlled competitors). Championship mode is identical to the single-player mode, though players compete against each other for the various trophies. Secret codes found during gameplay open a variety of hidden options. 
