Football Champ is an arcade-style football (soccer) video game. The game was produced by Team Dogyan developers in Japan, and originally released in the arcades by Taito Corporation in 1990. Euro Football Champ and Hat Trick Hero are versions of this game with minor variations. Super Football Champ is the Playstation conversion of Taito's classic arcade machine of the year 1995. Super Football Champ is different. It is pure arcade action that deflates the idea that all video soccer games must be a serious simulation of the sport. SFC is the type of football game that you would spend your loose change on for an hour or so in the arcades before scoffing a packet of chips on the way home. The in-game graphics are typically arcade with bulky polygon players plodding around the pitch, pushing and shoving for possession of the ball. Although they appear as a squad of numbered clones, your star player does stand out from the crowd with his individual features and hair style (not forgetting to mention the flashing 'Ace' arrow over his head). The duration of the match may last from 2 - 18 minutes with the difficulty level ranging from easy to very hard when playing against the computer. The offside rule may be switched off for a more flowing game while extra time may include the sudden death rule for a definite outcome. There are 30 International teams to choose from with the skill set at the level of their real-life counterparts. Each player will perform to the positional strengths of their team - apart from the 'Ace'. Super Football Champ feature four modes of play. League allows to play 3 different kind of leagues. Exhibition is a single player game against the CPU, a head to head against a mate or a cooperative partnership against the CPU. Worldwide Tournament begins with group matches before entering the quarter finals for a straight knockout. District Tournament is a straight KO competition, while the inclusion of a Penalty Competition allows practice for those sudden death situations. 
