As another addition to the off-road racing genre, TNN Motorsports HardCore TR features over 30 unique courses and 24 souped-up hotrods and all-terrain trucks customizable to your own preferences. Tracks span various locations throughout the United States ranging from the deserts and dirt trails of Arizona and the muddy swamps of Florida to the familiar wine valley landmarks of Northern California and the deep canyons of New Mexico. Held together by a map outlining race locations, the gameplay options include an Arcade, Championship, Player, Time Trial and Test Track modes. After making various modifications to your truck, you'll want to select the Test Track in order to see whether or not those changes positively or negatively affected your vehicle. Once your truck's handling and feel is to your liking, its time for some competition! The Championship mode spans four hardcore divisions beginning in the 4x4 Amateur Class; as you improve your driving skills, you'll move onto the Hotrod Amateur, 4x4 Pro and Hotrod Pro classes. Whereas the amateur classes (only readily available seasons upon startup) are five races long, the professional brackets span 10 different tracks. Your objective is to finish each division with the most points. Points are awarded by finishing in a top position: first place awards 10 points; second gives you six; and third hands out four. If you're successful in the amateur seasons, you'll be placed into the professional season where the competition is much tougher. If you'd rather not deal with points and qualifying, the Arcade mode allows you to immediately jump into the action. You'll start in a designated location and unlock different locations by finishing in first place. By doing well in all the Arcade races, you'll not only unlock the various tracks but also bonus trucks available for your choosing. The Time Trial has you in a heated competition against the clock for the ultimate lap times. TNN Motorsports Hardcore TR also features a multi-player Player mode that pits you and another human opponent in a split-screen battle. The game supports analog control for unprecedented handling, the vibration function and a memory card for saving game data and modifications. There are also weather effects such as rain, snow and foggy conditions. 
