Yetisports World Tour is the second game in the Yetisports games series for the Playstation One console. The first one was Yetisports Deluxe. Yetisports (also known as Pingu Throw) is a web-based Flash game that originally appeared on the Internet in January 2004. The goal of the original game is to have a yeti smack a penguin with a club and try to get it fly as far as possible. The original Yetisports game features no name other than the words "1978 Reinhold + Yeti", a reference to Reinhold Messner's claim to have found Yetis. The game is humorous and addictive at the same time and therefore very popular on the Internet. Very soon after release, there was a quick succession of many variants created by multiple people on the internet. None of these are officially sponsored by Chris Hilgert, even though many copy the original almost exactly save certain small changes. One of the more violent variants was made by someone known as 'Pawel', featuring decapitation, spikes, a big spiky club and mines. Since the original was released at the Yetisports homepage, the website has released nine further adventures of the Yeti as well as a re-release of the original that allows movement of the penguin in flight. A further set of PlayStation exclusive games followed, released as "YetiSports World Tour" which is one of the very last titles to be released on the console As most retail outlets no longer supporting the PS1 from 2005 it struggled to find shops willing to stock it. The game features 10 new mini games (that wasn't released before) and they can be played by one player or up to 4 players in multiplayer mode. After Antarctic and Australia ("Pingu Throw", "Orca Slap", "Seal Bounce" and "Albatross Overload" episodes), Africa will be the next continent where the famous Yeti and his peguins will arrive today. "Underneath giraffes, over elephants and acacias, catapulted high up to the sky by snakes and carried by vultures, the penguin demonstrates clean flying tricks on advanced level. With the help of Nile-flamingos, Yeti undertakes the probably most amusing safari in the African savanna in the fifth part of the cult-series". Some of the game games are: Pingu Throw, Orca Slap, Seal Bounce, Albatross Overload & Flamingo Drive. 
