Take the role of Flynn in Tron: Solar Sailer, an Intellivoice game based on the movie Tron. Navigate your way through the computer world to find the MCP (Master Computer Program). Overload the MCP to escape the computer world and return to reality!

Tron: Solar Sailer is a 1-player game with 2 stages of gameplay. In stage one, the player is given an access code to write down, and then is to guide the solar sailer down tracks in the computer world with the goal of reaching Track 0, where the MCP is located. As the player traverses the tracks, tanks attempt to shoot the sailer and recognizers attempted to move the sailer farther away from Track 0. I/O beams teleport the player closer to the MCP if they can properly enter the access code given to them at the beginning of the game. Moving down a track and shooting at enemies depletes energy from the track; switching tracks restores energy to full. If energy fully depletes before the player switches tracks, the sailer stops moving and the game is over. Energy levels can be monitored by the amount of &quot;energy bugs&quot; on the grid surrounding the track, with more bugs meaning more track energy. An audible warning also announces when track energy is low.

If the player makes it to Track 0, stage two begins. The player is placed in the heart of the MCP as it attempts to make continuous data transmissions to keep the player from entering the override code, thereby overloading the MCP and allowing Flynn to escape the computer program. 0s and 1s fly at the player in a first-person view. An in-game voice gives the player the override code in binary, and the player uses a cursor to catch the appropriate bits. Using the number pad, the player can then specify where in the code sequence the captured bit should go. Red bits, when colliding with the cursor, automatically fill in a randomly selected part of the sequence. This area is timed, so the code must be entered as quickly as possible!

Once the correct sequence has been entered, the MCP overloads and the game is over. However, the game gives the option of going into &quot;Overtime Mode&quot; for extra points, at which point the player attempts to block all incoming transmissions or lose the game.
