An updated version of Hiryu no Ken S: Golden Fighter which adds a choice of turbo speed levels to increase the speed of the combat.In the Story mode, the main storyline involves a demon named Dargon who has been revived with the sole intent to destroy the Flying Warriors, who are a team of superheroes. Dargon sent in his Tusk Soldiers to raid Shorinji and they ended up stealing the secret scroll of Hiryu-no-ken and a sacred sword. They also offer a challenge to anyone who wants to reclaim these artifacts, that they would have to have a showdown at the World Tournament. It is now up to Rick to enter this fighting tournament and win back these priceless artifacts.During story mode, players control Rick in a side scrolling beat 'em up. Occasionally one one one boss battles will occur. Players will also be able to find healing items called miracle water which will restore depleted health.In the VS. Tournament mode, up to 8 players can fight each or computer opponents in one on one battles to win a tournament. Players can choose to play as one of twelve fighters, each with their own special martial arts technique. Options include setting the turbo mode speed, turning on or off cosmic saucer (knocking the opponent out of the ring), the time limit of a round of fighting (1, 3, or 5 minutes, or no time limit at all), and the level of a handicap to put on a fighter.In the Battle mode, players get to fight a one on one battle against a computer controlled boss opponent of their choice.The Animation mode plays out similar to the Story mode except when it comes to the boss battles. Boss battles in this mode turn into turn based affairs. Players can select from different attack and defensive moves, or can even have the computer fight their battle automatically.The game also has two different fight control settings. The Fighting option is how most fighting games are controlled while Expert involves target circles appearing on the player and the opponent during a fight. Players have to attack where the target circles are on their opponent and defend against attacks when the target circles are their own body. There are also 8 difficulty levels for the player to choose from.
